GDS1750 Expression profiling of 4 mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) cell lines. MCL has the worst prognosis among B-cell lymphomas. Gene expression results combine with genomic profiling results to identify genes that are relevant to MCL pathogenesis and that could also represent possible therapeutic targets.
GDS3383 Analysis of peripheral blood monocytes from individuals experiencing chronic stress due to being caregivers of family members with malignant brain cancer. Chronic stressors increase vulnerability to medical illness. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon.
GDS2083 Analysis of vastus lateralis muscle after knee immobilization for 48 hours. Limbs immobilized due to injury or illness experience significant muscle atrophy within 1 or 2 weeks. Results provide insight into the mechanisms regulating the rapid protein degradation in immobilized skeletal muscles.
GDS3638 Analysis of MDB-MB-453 breast cancer cells treated with 20 or 40 ug/ml actein for 6 or 24 hours. Actein is a triterpene glycoside from the herb black cohosh and inhibits the growth of cancer cells in vitro. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of this inhibitory effect.
GDS3041 Analysis of pharyngeal epithelial cells exposed to various encapsulated strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae. Nasopharynx colonization by S. pneumoniae is mediated by adherence to the respiratory epithelium. Results provide insight into the capsule-dependent host response to pneumococcal adherence.
GDS3634 Analysis of DU145 prostate cancer cells with restored miR-205 expression. miR-205 expression is lower in prostate cancer cell lines than in normal cell lines, as well as in prostate tumors than in matched normal prostate tissues. Results provide insight into the role of miR-205 in prostate cancer.
GDS3635 Analysis of GM5659 skin fibroblasts treated with ascorbic acid  or the stable vitamin C derivative, ascorbic acid 2-phosphate. Vitamin C is an important water-soluble free radical scavenger and an essential cofactor for collagen synthesis by dermal fibroblasts. 
GDS2189 Analysis of MCF10A mammary epithelial cells (MECs) in 3D culture following depletion of the BRCA1/CtIP/ZBRK1 repressor complex using BRCA1 or CtIP RNAi. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the accelerated mammary tumor growth correlated with impaired BRCA1 function.
GDS3630 Analysis of healthy intestinal mucosa biopsies from 10 monozygotic and 10 dizygotic twin pairs. Barrier organs such as the gut are exposed to continual environmental challenge. Results provide insight into genetic and non-genetic determinants of gene expression.
GDS3631 Analysis of peripheral blood CD2+ leukocytes from asthmatic children of low and high socioeconomic families. Low socioeconomic status is a social factor associated with disease morbidity, including more severe asthma in childhood. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of this link.
GDS2183 Analysis of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (CSF) or macrophage-CSF differentiated macrophages stimulated with bacillus Calmette-Guerin. The two macrophage types differ in their resistance to mycobacterial infection. Results identify host resistance or susceptibility genes.
GDS2182 Analysis of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (CSF) or macrophage-CSF differentiated macrophages stimulated with bacillus Calmette-Guerin. The two macrophage types differ in their resistance to mycobacterial infection. Results identify host resistance or susceptibility genes.
GDS3433 Analysis of T lymphocyte Jurkat cells treated with 10 nM azaspiracid-1 (AZA-1) for up to 24 hours. AZA-1 is a marine biotoxin reported to accumulate in shellfish and is associated with severe gastrointestinal human intoxication. Results provide insight into the mechanism of action of AZA-1.
GDS2180 Analysis of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (CSF) or macrophage-CSF differentiated macrophages stimulated with bacillus Calmette-Guerin. The two macrophage types differ in their resistance to mycobacterial infection. Results identify host resistance or susceptibility genes.
GDS3432 Analysis of glucocorticoid receptor alpha (hGRalpha) isoform -A, -B, -C, or -D expressing osteosarcoma cells for up to 24 h after hGRalpha activation with dexomethasone. Cell apoptosis occurred in a GR isoform-selective manner. Results provide insight into the function of each isoform.
GDS2384 Analysis of prostate cancer (PC) xenografts collected from male mice up to 14 days after castration. The androgen receptor (AR) plays a pivotal role in the growth and survival of prostate carcinoma.  Results provide insight into the role of selective adaptations of the AR pathway in PC progression.
GDS2381 Analysis of lesional and non-lesional skin biopsy specimens from adult patients with atopic dermatitis (AD). Results provide insight into the molecular changes associated with early AD inflammation.
GDS2382 Analysis of lesional and non-lesional skin biopsy specimens from adult patients with atopic dermatitis (AD). Results provide insight into the molecular changes associated with early AD inflammation.
GDS3439 Comparison of intralobular and interlobular fibroblasts isolated from breast tissues. Intralobular fibroblasts surround mammary gland epithelial cells, and interlobular fibroblasts surround intralobular fibroblasts. Results provide insight into the differences between the two fibroblast subtypes.
GDS751 Expression profiling of CD56dimCD16+, CD56brightCD16-, and in vitro activated CD56+CD16+ natural killer (NK) cells.  NK cells derived from purified peripheral blood  pooled from 9 healthy donors.  
GDS3434 Analysis of gastric mucosa from H. pylori specific pathogen free (SPF) rhesus monkeys infected with wildtype H. pylori strain J166 or its isogenic cag pathogenicity island (cag PAI) knockout mutant. Results provide insight into the role of cag PAI in the H. pylori host-pathogen interaction.
GDS737 Comparison of lung tissue from smokers with severe emphysema (removed at lung volume reduction surgery) and  smokers with mild or no emphysema. Study provides insights into the pathogenesis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
GDS3649 Analysis of HK2 proximal tubular cells (PTCs) treated with C-peptide, TBF-beta 1, or both agents for 18 or 48 hours. C-peptide alleviates TGF-beta 1-mediated phenotypic and morphological changes in PTCs associated with epithelial-mesenchymal transformation (EMT). EMT contributes to renal fibrosis.
GDS3034 Analysis of HUVEC umbilical vein endothelial cells (EC) exposed to Candida albicans blastopsores. ECs actively participate in the innate defense against microbial pathogens. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying the endothelial stress response to Candida infection.
GDS3032 Analysis of post-confluent Caco-2 colon cancer cells up to 10 days after treatment with ascorbate-stabilized quercetin, a polyphenol antioxidant compound. Caco-2 cells differentiate after reaching confluency. Results provide insight into quercetin's role in cell-proliferation and -differentiation.
GDS3640 Analysis of HepG2 liver cells treated with up to 600 uM copper sulfate for up to 24 hours. Copper is an essential trace element but can be extremely toxic at supraphysiological levels. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of copper toxicity.
GDS2396 Analysis of cDNA libraries each generated from a single cultured epidermal stem cell (SC) or transit-amplifying (TA) cell. TA cells are SC progenies that are destined to terminally differentiate. Single cell expression profiling avoids the problem of potentially masking cellular heterogeneity.
GDS2190 Analysis of postmortem dorsolateral prefrontal cortex from 30 adults with bipolar disorder. Results provide insight into the pathophysiology of the disease.
GDS2397 Analysis of pooled hematopoietic CD34+ stem cells from peripheral blood of patients with idiopathic myelofibrosis (IM), a rare chronic myeloproliferative disorder. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of IM.
GDS2191 Analysis of postmortem orbitofrontal cortex from 10 adults with bipolar disorder. Results provide insight into the pathophysiology of the disease.
GDS2193 Analysis of adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) derived cells (ACC3) following RNAi knockdown of Sry-related high mobility group box 4 (Sox4). Sox4 is one of the most upregulated genes in ACC. Results provide insight into the role of Sox4 in the pathogenesis of ACC.
GDS2395 Analysis of cDNA libraries each generated from a single cultured epidermal stem cell (SC) or transit-amplifying (TA) cell. TA cells are SC progenies that are destined to terminally differentiate. Single cell expression profiling avoids the problem of potentially masking cellular heterogeneity.
GDS3233 Analysis of cervical cancer (CC) primary tumors and cell lines. Chromosomal amplification is a common cellular mechanism of gene activation in tumorigenesis; chromosome 20 is a commonly gained chromosome in CC. Results provide insight into the potential role of chromosome 20 gain in CC progression.
GDS3656 Analysis of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) from patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) before and 4 weeks of dietary folic acid (FA) supplementation. EPCs are involved in vascular wall repair. T1D results in reduced circulating EPCs. Results provide insight into the effect of FA on EPC function.
GDS3638 Analysis of MDB-MB-453 breast cancer cells treated with 20 or 40 ug/ml actein for 6 or 24 hours. Actein is a triterpene glycoside from the herb black cohosh and inhibits the growth of cancer cells in vitro. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of this inhibitory effect.
GDS3041 Analysis of pharyngeal epithelial cells exposed to various encapsulated strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae. Nasopharynx colonization by S. pneumoniae is mediated by adherence to the respiratory epithelium. Results provide insight into the capsule-dependent host response to pneumococcal adherence.
GDS3634 Analysis of DU145 prostate cancer cells with restored miR-205 expression. miR-205 expression is lower in prostate cancer cell lines than in normal cell lines, as well as in prostate tumors than in matched normal prostate tissues. Results provide insight into the role of miR-205 in prostate cancer.
GDS3635 Analysis of GM5659 skin fibroblasts treated with ascorbic acid  or the stable vitamin C derivative, ascorbic acid 2-phosphate. Vitamin C is an important water-soluble free radical scavenger and an essential cofactor for collagen synthesis by dermal fibroblasts. 
GDS2189 Analysis of MCF10A mammary epithelial cells (MECs) in 3D culture following depletion of the BRCA1/CtIP/ZBRK1 repressor complex using BRCA1 or CtIP RNAi. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the accelerated mammary tumor growth correlated with impaired BRCA1 function.
GDS3630 Analysis of healthy intestinal mucosa biopsies from 10 monozygotic and 10 dizygotic twin pairs. Barrier organs such as the gut are exposed to continual environmental challenge. Results provide insight into genetic and non-genetic determinants of gene expression.
GDS3631 Analysis of peripheral blood CD2+ leukocytes from asthmatic children of low and high socioeconomic families. Low socioeconomic status is a social factor associated with disease morbidity, including more severe asthma in childhood. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of this link.
GDS2183 Analysis of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (CSF) or macrophage-CSF differentiated macrophages stimulated with bacillus Calmette-Guerin. The two macrophage types differ in their resistance to mycobacterial infection. Results identify host resistance or susceptibility genes.
GDS2182 Analysis of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (CSF) or macrophage-CSF differentiated macrophages stimulated with bacillus Calmette-Guerin. The two macrophage types differ in their resistance to mycobacterial infection. Results identify host resistance or susceptibility genes.
GDS3433 Analysis of T lymphocyte Jurkat cells treated with 10 nM azaspiracid-1 (AZA-1) for up to 24 hours. AZA-1 is a marine biotoxin reported to accumulate in shellfish and is associated with severe gastrointestinal human intoxication. Results provide insight into the mechanism of action of AZA-1.
GDS2180 Analysis of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (CSF) or macrophage-CSF differentiated macrophages stimulated with bacillus Calmette-Guerin. The two macrophage types differ in their resistance to mycobacterial infection. Results identify host resistance or susceptibility genes.
GDS3432 Analysis of glucocorticoid receptor alpha (hGRalpha) isoform -A, -B, -C, or -D expressing osteosarcoma cells for up to 24 h after hGRalpha activation with dexomethasone. Cell apoptosis occurred in a GR isoform-selective manner. Results provide insight into the function of each isoform.
GDS2384 Analysis of prostate cancer (PC) xenografts collected from male mice up to 14 days after castration. The androgen receptor (AR) plays a pivotal role in the growth and survival of prostate carcinoma.  Results provide insight into the role of selective adaptations of the AR pathway in PC progression.
GDS2381 Analysis of lesional and non-lesional skin biopsy specimens from adult patients with atopic dermatitis (AD). Results provide insight into the molecular changes associated with early AD inflammation.
GDS2382 Analysis of lesional and non-lesional skin biopsy specimens from adult patients with atopic dermatitis (AD). Results provide insight into the molecular changes associated with early AD inflammation.
GDS3439 Comparison of intralobular and interlobular fibroblasts isolated from breast tissues. Intralobular fibroblasts surround mammary gland epithelial cells, and interlobular fibroblasts surround intralobular fibroblasts. Results provide insight into the differences between the two fibroblast subtypes.
GDS751 Expression profiling of CD56dimCD16+, CD56brightCD16-, and in vitro activated CD56+CD16+ natural killer (NK) cells.  NK cells derived from purified peripheral blood  pooled from 9 healthy donors.  
GDS3434 Analysis of gastric mucosa from H. pylori specific pathogen free (SPF) rhesus monkeys infected with wildtype H. pylori strain J166 or its isogenic cag pathogenicity island (cag PAI) knockout mutant. Results provide insight into the role of cag PAI in the H. pylori host-pathogen interaction.
GDS737 Comparison of lung tissue from smokers with severe emphysema (removed at lung volume reduction surgery) and  smokers with mild or no emphysema. Study provides insights into the pathogenesis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
GDS3649 Analysis of HK2 proximal tubular cells (PTCs) treated with C-peptide, TBF-beta 1, or both agents for 18 or 48 hours. C-peptide alleviates TGF-beta 1-mediated phenotypic and morphological changes in PTCs associated with epithelial-mesenchymal transformation (EMT). EMT contributes to renal fibrosis.
GDS3034 Analysis of HUVEC umbilical vein endothelial cells (EC) exposed to Candida albicans blastopsores. ECs actively participate in the innate defense against microbial pathogens. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying the endothelial stress response to Candida infection.
GDS3032 Analysis of post-confluent Caco-2 colon cancer cells up to 10 days after treatment with ascorbate-stabilized quercetin, a polyphenol antioxidant compound. Caco-2 cells differentiate after reaching confluency. Results provide insight into quercetin's role in cell-proliferation and -differentiation.
GDS3640 Analysis of HepG2 liver cells treated with up to 600 uM copper sulfate for up to 24 hours. Copper is an essential trace element but can be extremely toxic at supraphysiological levels. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of copper toxicity.
GDS2396 Analysis of cDNA libraries each generated from a single cultured epidermal stem cell (SC) or transit-amplifying (TA) cell. TA cells are SC progenies that are destined to terminally differentiate. Single cell expression profiling avoids the problem of potentially masking cellular heterogeneity.
GDS2190 Analysis of postmortem dorsolateral prefrontal cortex from 30 adults with bipolar disorder. Results provide insight into the pathophysiology of the disease.
GDS2397 Analysis of pooled hematopoietic CD34+ stem cells from peripheral blood of patients with idiopathic myelofibrosis (IM), a rare chronic myeloproliferative disorder. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of IM.
GDS2191 Analysis of postmortem orbitofrontal cortex from 10 adults with bipolar disorder. Results provide insight into the pathophysiology of the disease.
GDS2193 Analysis of adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) derived cells (ACC3) following RNAi knockdown of Sry-related high mobility group box 4 (Sox4). Sox4 is one of the most upregulated genes in ACC. Results provide insight into the role of Sox4 in the pathogenesis of ACC.
GDS2395 Analysis of cDNA libraries each generated from a single cultured epidermal stem cell (SC) or transit-amplifying (TA) cell. TA cells are SC progenies that are destined to terminally differentiate. Single cell expression profiling avoids the problem of potentially masking cellular heterogeneity.
GDS3233 Analysis of cervical cancer (CC) primary tumors and cell lines. Chromosomal amplification is a common cellular mechanism of gene activation in tumorigenesis; chromosome 20 is a commonly gained chromosome in CC. Results provide insight into the potential role of chromosome 20 gain in CC progression.
GDS3656 Analysis of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) from patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) before and 4 weeks of dietary folic acid (FA) supplementation. EPCs are involved in vascular wall repair. T1D results in reduced circulating EPCs. Results provide insight into the effect of FA on EPC function.
GDS3068 Analysis of primary hepatocytes (PHs) and HepG2 liver cells treated with various fluoroquinolones. PHs are used in drug metabolism research, and HepG2 cells are surrogates for PHs. Results provide insight into the differences in the response of PHs and HepG2 cells to xenobiotics.
GDS3069 Analysis of 12 primary brain tumor biopsies with some variation in their histological diagnoses. These results, together with those obtained from miRNA profiling by real-time PCR, provide insight into the relationship between endogenous fluctuations in miRNA and mRNA expression levels.
GDS3260 Analysis of human intestinal xenotransplants infected with Shigella flexneri (virulent wild-type M90T, virulent mxiE mutant, and avirulent BS176 strains). Virulent S. flexneri are highly contagious enteric pathogens. Results provide insight into the intestinal innate immune response to infection.
GDS3262 Analysis of yolk sac tumors (YSTs) and seminomas, the two principal histological variants of pediatric malignant germ cell tumors (MGCTs). Seminomas and YSTs are presumed to arise from the same progenitor cell. Results provide insight into the molecular basis for the divergence of pediatric MGCTs.
GDS3459 Analysis of various brain regions of patients who suffered from frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitinated inclusions (FTLD-U). Presence of progranulin (GRN) mutations determined. GRN mutations are associated with FTLD-U. Results identify expression signatures for GRN subtypes of FTLD-U.
GDS3060 Analysis of cultured endometrial endothelial cells derived from the eutopic endometria of patients with endometriosis. Results provide insight into the role of aberrant angiogenesis in the pathogenesis of endometriosis.
GDS3062 Temporal analysis of cultures of multipotent stromal cells (MSCs) from bone marrow aspirates from 3 donors. On day 2, the MSCs are in transition from lag phase to log phase; on day 7, they are in stationary phase. Results provide insight into the molecular changes in MSCs during in vitro expansion.
GDS3268 Analysis of inflamed and un-inflamed colon epithelial biopsies of 67 ulcerative colitis (UC) patients from different anatomical locations of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Results provide insight into the regional variation of gene expression in UC patients and the pathogenesis of UC. 
GDS3054 Analysis of buccal epithelia from cigarette smokers. Cigarette smoke creates a field of injury in epithelial cells lining the respiratory tract. Results extend the concept of a smoking-induced field of injury beyond intrathoracic (bronchial) epithelia to extrathoracic epithelia that line the mouth.
GDS756 Comparison of gene expression in SW480, a primary tumor colon cancer cell line, to that in SW620, an isogenic metastatic colon cancer cell line.  Cell lines derived from one individual.  Results provide insight the progression of cancer from primary tumor growth to metastasis.
GDS3057 Comparison of leukemic blasts from 26 acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients with normal hematopoietic cells at a variety of different stages of maturation from 38 healthy donors. Results provide insight into the possible clinical significance of those genes with AML-specific expression changes.
GDS3258 Analysis of monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs) treated with decoy receptor 3 (DcR3) recombinant fusion protein. DcR3, a TNF receptor superfamily member, is up-regulated in tumors from diverse lineages. Results provide insight into the role of DcR3 in tumor-associated macrophage (TAM) development.
GDS3463 Analysis of muscle biopsies from septic patients treated in the intensive care unit. Septic patients often develop multiple organ failure including persistent skeletal muscle dysfunction. Results provide insight into the molecular defects driving loss of muscle function and metabolic homeostasis.
GDS3469 Analysis of monocytes following stimulation with leukotriene D4 (LTD4), a cysteinyl leukotriene (CysLT). CysLTs are mediators of innate immune responsiveness and chronic inflammatory diseases. Results provide insight into the signaling pathways involved in monocyte activation by cysLTs.
GDS3467 Analysis of first trimester placenta tissues obtained by chorionic villus sampling from women destined to develop preeclampsia. Preeclampsia is a cause of maternal, fetal, and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of preeclampsia. 
GDS761 Expression profiling of malignant megakaryocytes (MK) from 6 donors with essential thrombocythemia (ET).  MK derived from bone marrow CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells.  Progenitors induced to differentiate into MK by treatment with 100 ng/ml thrombopoietin.  Apoptotic pathway is impaired in ET.
GDS3051 Analysis of IMR-90 fibroblasts cultured in a two- or a three-dimensional collagen-glycosaminoglycan (GAG) environment. The 3-D presentation of collagen-GAG stimulates increased fibroblast remodeling activity. Results provide insight into molecular changes elicited by the 3-D collagen-GAG interface.
GDS3257 Analysis of different tumor stage adenocarcinoma and paired normal lung tissues of current, former and never smokers. To date, tobacco smoking is responsible for over 90% of lung cancers. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of lung carcinogenesis induced by smoking.
GDS3256 Analysis of young, untreated metaphase II (MII) oocytes. Results provide insight into the baseline of genes expressed in in vivo matured oocytes and into the molecular mechanisms underlying biological processes such as oogenesis, folliculogenesis, fertilization, and embryonic development.
GDS2143 Analysis of the nasal respiratory epithelium of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients with mild or severe lung disease. CF patients have identical homozygous deltaF508 CFTR genotypes but exhibit variability in pulmonary disease severity. Results provide insight into the basis of the phenotypic difference.
GDS2142 Analysis of the nasal respiratory epithelium of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients with mild or severe lung disease. CF patients have identical homozygous deltaF508 CFTR genotypes but exhibit variability in pulmonary disease severity. Results provide insight into the basis of the phenotypic difference.
GDS3005 Analysis of cultured monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) stimulated with interleukin (IL) 1 or IL-6 for 4 hours. Cytokines IL-1 and IL-6 are not only produced by macrophages but also affect the cells in an autocrine manner. Results provide insight into IL-1 and IL-6 responsive genes in MDMs.
GDS3007 Analysis of cells expressing microRNA (miR) K12-11 from Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus. miR-K12-11 shares sequence homology with hsa-miR-155, a miRNA up-regulated in lymphomas and important in B cell development. Results provide insight into the biological activity of miR-K12-11.
GDS992 Identification of genes whose mRNA are translated from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in the breast cancer cell line MCF-7.  Secreted and membrane-bound proteins are preferentially translated in the ER.  Results provide insight into the association of membrane-bound proteins and breast cancer. 
GDS3004 Analysis of HEp2 epithelial cells subjected to heat stress at temperatures of 37 to 40 degrees C. Results provide insight into the regulatory pathways that control the response to heat stress.
GDS3282 Analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from operationally tolerant liver transplant patients. Operationally tolerant patients are fully immunocompetent but accept grafts without chronic immunosuppression. Results identify a molecular signature for operational tolerance.
GDS3003 Analysis of H292 bronchial epithelial cells exposed to house dust mite (HDM) extract. More than just a physical barrier, epithelium can produce mediators in response to pathogens and allergens. Results provide insight into the nature of the response of bronchial epithelial cells to HDM allergen.
GDS3281 Analysis of tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) skin hamartomas (angiofibromas and periungual fibromas) with normal-appearing skin from the same patients. Hamartomas overgrow epithelial and mesenchymal cells in TSC skin. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of TSC hamartomas.
GDS3679 Analysis of SC and OM adipose tissue collected from morbidly obese patients.  Patients grouped as Low or High Acylation Stimulating protein (ASP) and Triglyceride (TG). ASP is associated with various metabolic disorders. Results provide insight into molecular basis of the two ASP-TG lipemic indices.
GDS3678 Analysis of adipose tissue from moderately overweight subjects who consumed a saturated fat (SFA)-rich diet for 2 weeks, followed by SFA or monounsaturated (MUFA)-rich intervention diets for 8 weeks. Results provide insight into role of dietary fat on the risk of developing metabolic syndrome.
GDS3289 Analysis of LCM-captured epithelial cell populations representing prostate cancer progression from benign epithelium to metastatic disease. Stromal cell populations also examined. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying the different aspects of prostate cancer progression.
GDS989 Expression profiling of cell lines BCBL-1 and BC-3 infected by Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), Raji infected by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), and BC-1 infected by both viruses.  Results identify expression patterns specific to KSHV-infected primary effusion lymphoma derived cells.
GDS988 Expression profiling of B lymphoid cell lines overexpressing the latency-associated nuclear antigen (LANA) of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus. B cells made to express LANA from a tetracycline inducible promoter.  Expression examined at various time points up to 48 hours after induction.
GDS3283 Analysis of MCF-7 breast cancer cells treated with estradiol for 3 or 6 hours. Results combined with ChIP experiments to identify estrogen receptor alpha binding sites and estradiol target genes in breast cancer cells.
GDS987 Analysis of kidneys from adult renal transplant recipients subjected to calcineurin inhibitor-free immunosuppression using sirolimus. Patients treated with sirolimus have a lower prevalence of chronic allograft nephropathy compared to those treated with cyclosporine, a calcineurin inhibitor.
GDS3285 Analysis of MCF-7 breast cancer cells treated with estrogen for up to 12 hours. Results used in conjunction with estrogen receptor and RNA polymerase II binding data to provide insight into the mechanisms underlying estrogen-regulated gene expression in breast cancer.
GDS2154 Analysis of parvovirus B19 positive endomyocardial biopsy (EMB) specimens from patients with inflammatory dilated cardiomyopathy (DCMi). Results report on a distinctive cardiac expression pattern in DCMi thereby providing insight into the pathogenesis of this DCM subtype.
GDS3686 Analysis of mature monocyte derived macrophages treated with colony stimulating factor 1 (CSF-1) in vitro for 6 hours. CSF-1 supports the proliferation and differentiation of monocytes and macrophages. Results provide insight into the effect of CSF-1 stimulation on mature monocytes.  
GDS3681 Analysis of myotube cell lines established from type 2 diabetes (T2D) subjects. Insulin resistance and reduced mitochondrial biogenesis coexist early in T2D pathogenesis independent of hyperglycemia and obesity. Results provide insight into the effect of T2D on developing skeletal muscle cells. 
GDS2810 Temporal analysis of two nonmalignant mammary epithelial cells (HMEC) grown in a laminin-rich extracellular matrix. Both HMECs transit from a disorganized to an organized state to form polarized acini. Results identify gene signatures with potential value for breast cancer prognosis prediction.
GDS776 Expression profiling of monocytes cultured for 2 days with 150 pg/ml interferon (IFN) gamma and then stimulated with 25 ng/ml of IFN-alpha.  Monocytes obtained from 3 donors.  Results provide insight into mechanisms underlying the enhanced response of IFN primed monocytes to cytokines.
GDS786 Analysis of CD4+ T cell differentiation by expression profiling of subpopulations of CD4+ cells representing 5 successive stages of differentiation: intrathymic T progenitors, double positive thymocytes, single positive thymocytes, naïve T cells from cord blood, and naïve T cells from adult blood.
GDS785 Analysis of CD4+ T cell differentiation by expression profiling of subpopulations of CD4+ cells representing 5 successive stages of differentiation: intrathymic T progenitors, double positive thymocytes, single positive thymocytes, naïve T cells from cord blood, and naïve T cells from adult blood.
GDS3274 Comparison of chromophobe renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and benign oncocytoma tumor samples. Malignant chromophobe RCC and benign oncocytoma share  morphologic features. Results provide insight into the molecular differences between the two types of tumors.
GDS3401 Comparison of UCB1 and UCB2 cells, two distinct isogenic mesenchymal stem/stromal cell (MSC) populations isolated from umbilical cord blood. UCB1 and UCB2 display phenotypic differences. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the phenotypic heterogeneity among MSC populations.
GDS3402 Comparison of UCB1 and UCB2 cells, two distinct isogenic mesenchymal stem/stromal cell (MSC) populations isolated from umbilical cord blood. UCB1 and UCB2 display phenotypic differences. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the phenotypic heterogeneity among MSC populations.  
GDS2808 Analysis of neutrophils from critically ill patients with sepsis. Results used to define a gene expression signature for sepsis and provides insight into the host response to sepsis. 
GDS3691 Analysis of PBMCs from healthy males after 3 weeks of virgin olive oil (VOO) consumption at doses common in the Mediterranean diet.  The Mediterranean diet protects against cardiovascular diseases. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the beneficial action of VOO.
GDS2164 Analysis of Jurkat CD4+ T cells following induction of simian immune deficiency virus (SIV) Nef from an inducible promoter. The Nef protein is expressed early in HIV and SIV infections and plays a crucial role in disease progression. Results identify Nef-mediated changes in T cell gene expression.
GDS3027 Analysis of skeletal muscles from 1.5 to 61 month old children with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). DMD is a degenerative skeletal muscle disease caused by mutations in the dystrophin gene. Results provide insight into the early phases of DMD pathogenesis and pathophysiology.
GDS3690 Analysis of various mononuclear cells from patients with severe triple-vessel coronary artery disease (CAD). CD34+ stem cells, CD4+ T-helper cells, CD14+ resting monocytes, LPS-stimulated monocytes, and macrophages were examined. Results provide insight into the pathophysiology of atherosclerosis.
GDS3029 Analysis of small-cell lung carcinoma cell (SCLC) lines. Expression profiles compared to the cell lines' sensitivity to the Bcl-2 antagonist ABT-737 and chromosomal gains that include changes in Bcl-2 gene copy number. ABT-737 induces the regression of a fraction of SCLC solid tumors.
GDS1699 Analysis of androgen sensitive (AS) and insensitive (AI) prostate cancer cell lines. Despite the wide use of these cell lines as model systems, a global genotypic characterization of these cell lines is currently lacking. Results identify differences in gene expression profiles.
GDS2168 Analysis of CD14+ monocytes from 8 HIV patients at the aviremic state during highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) and at the viremic state after the cessation of HAART. Results provide insight into the impact of HIV infection and high-level HIV viremia on the function of monocytes.
GDS3694 Analysis of skeletal muscle from obese diet sensitive and resistant women after completion of a weight loss program. Subjects are in the highest and lowest quintiles for weight loss rate. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the variability in weight loss during caloric restriction.
GDS1697 Analysis of prostate cancer cell lines after treatment with the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-dC). Aberrant DNA methylation is an early event in the development of prostate cancer. Results identify hypermethylated genes whose expression is induced by 5-aza-dC.
GDS3697 Analysis of 8 atherosclerotic LAD coronaries presenting at least 75% stenosis and calcified plaques. Atherosclerosis affects aorta, coronary, carotid, and iliac arteries more frequently than any other vessel. Results provide insight into molecular networks underlying the atherosclerotic condition.
GDS3696 Analysis of 8 atherosclerotic LAD coronaries presenting at least 75% stenosis and calcified plaques. Atherosclerosis affects aorta, coronary, carotid, and iliac arteries more frequently than any other vessel. Results provide insight into molecular networks underlying the atherosclerotic condition.
GDS3698 Analysis of 8 atherosclerotic LAD coronaries presenting at least 75% stenosis and calcified plaques. Atherosclerosis affects aorta, coronary, carotid, and iliac arteries more frequently than any other vessel. Results provide insight into molecular networks underlying the atherosclerotic condition.
GDS3413 Analysis of cultured aortic smooth muscle cells grown for 14 days in the presence of 10 or 100 umol/L DL-homocysteine (Hcy). Elevated plasma levels of Hcy are a risk factor for atherosclerotic vascular disease. Results provide insight into the role of Hcy in atherosclerosis.
GDS3416 Analysis of whole blood from long-term practitioners of daily relaxation response (RR) practice and those with short-term (8 wks) RR training. RR is a mind-body intervention that offsets the physiological effects caused by stress. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying the RR.
GDS3417 Analysis of skeletal muscle biopsies from untreated girls with active symptoms of juvenile dermatomyositis (JDM) less than 2 months or greater than 2 months. Results provide insight into the impact of the duration of chronic inflammation on gene expression in muscle of untreated children with JDM.
GDS3017 Analysis of cervical cancer biopsy samples from patients receiving radiotherapy alone or radiotherapy plus concomitant chemotherapy with cisplatin (CRT). Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the therapeutic response to CRT.
GDS2175 Analysis of Cockayne syndrome group B (CSB) protein-null fibroblasts rescued by expression of CSB cDNA. CS, a neurodegenerative disorder, arises mostly from CSB defects. Results provide insight into how CSB defects cause CS.
GDS1290 Analysis of CD4+ lymphocyte induced to differentiate into Th1 and Th2 by treatment with IL-12 and IL-4 respectively in the presence of TGFbeta. Cells examined at various time points up to 48 hours after treatment. Results provide insight into the mechanisms regulating CD4+ cell polarization.
GDS2176 Analysis of Cockayne syndrome group B (CSB) protein-null fibroblasts rescued by expression of CSB cDNA. CS, a neurodegenerative disorder, arises mostly from CSB defects. Results provide insight into how CSB defects cause CS.
GDS3011 Analysis of epidermal keratinocytes at various time points up to 48 hours post-interleukin-1 (IL-1) treatment. IL-1 is a proinflammatory and immunomodulatory cytokine that plays a role in inflammatory diseases of the skin. Results provide insight into gene products that mediate the effects of IL-1.
GDS3292 Analysis of LCM-harvested high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL) and invasive squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) from cervices. If left untreated, a subset of the HSILs will progress to SCCs. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying cervical cancer progression.
GDS3291 Analysis of myelomonocytic lymphoma U937 cells subjected to mild hyperthermia. Mild hyperthermia alone does not induce apoptosis but it does show a synergism with radiotherapy and anti-cancer drugs. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying cellular responses to mild hyperthermia.
GDS3012 Analysis of six melanoma cell lines treated with the DNA methylation inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5AzadC). Results provide insight into the role of epigenetic silencing by DNA methylation in the pathogenesis of melanoma.
GDS3290 Analysis of interleukin-6 (IL-6) infused skeletal muscle (SKM) biopsies at time points up to 6hr. IL-6, a cytokine secreted from skeletal muscle during exercise, works in both an autocrine and paracrine manner. Results provide insight into IL-6-induced expression of other secreted factors in SKM. 
GDS3297 Analysis of stage III ovarian serous papillary adenocarcinomas from 5-year survivors and deceased patients. Ovarian carcinoma is often not detected until an advanced stage.  Results provide insight into gene expression patterns associated with survival that could have prognostic relevance.
GDS999 Expression profiling of bronchoalveolar lavage cells of lung transplant recipients with acute rejection. Rejection status determined from biopsies. Results identify possible gene markers of lung transplant rejection.
GDS3423 Analysis of livers from middle-aged obese women on a low-fat hypocaloric diet for 8 weeks. The diet resulted in a mean weight loss of 5% of body weight. Results provide insight into the effect of a hypocaloric diet on the liver at the molecular level.
GDS3424 Analysis of intestinal Caco-2 cells treated with conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) isomer trans-10, cis-12 CLA or cis-9, trans-11 CLA. CLA exerts isomer-specific effects on transepithelial calcium transport and cell growth in Caco-2 cells. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms of action.
GDS3429 Analysis of T lymphocyte Jurkat cells treated with 1 or 10 nM azaspiracid-1 (AZA-1) for up to 24 hours. AZA-1 is a marine biotoxin reported to accumulate in shellfish and is associated with severe gastrointestinal intoxication. Results provide insight into the mechanism of action of AZA-1.
GDS3298 Analysis of blood monocytes infected with Francisella tularensis tularensis Schu S4 (virulent) or subsp. novicida (less virulent). F. tularensis causes the disease tularemia. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms that enable Francisella to dampen or subvert the host immune response.
GDS3428 Analysis of immature dendritic cell lines (iDCs) treated with the butanol-fraction of stems and leaves of E. purpurea [BF/S+L/Ep] containing defined bioactive phytocompounds. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying the immune-modulatory activities induced by the phytocompounds.
GDS2171 Analysis of prostate adenocarcinoma specimens with Gleason patterns 3, 4, or 5. Adenocarcinoma specimens obtained by radical prostatectomy. Results identify molecular alterations underlying prostate cancer grades.
GDS1295 Analysis of spinal cord from fetuses with lethal congenital contracture syndrome (LCCS). LCCS is autosomal recessive, causes death in 32nd gestational week, and involves degeneration of anterior horn motor neurons in spinal cord. Results provide insight into pathways active in motoneuron disease.
GDS1282 Expression profiling of clear cell sarcoma of the kidney (CCSK). Wilms' tumors and fetal kidney control samples also examined. Objective is to reveal diagnostic markers and insight into the pathogenesis of CCSK.
GDS1284 Analysis of CD138+ plasma cells purified from bone marrow of multiple myeloma (MM) patients. Results used to classify MM cases into translocation/cyclin (TC) groups based on cyclin D expression and presence of translocations in the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus at 14q32.
GDS2649 Analysis of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from HIV patients at different clinical stages and rates of disease progression. Changes in T-cell function are a hallmark of HIV infection. Results provide insight into the pathogenic mechanisms in HIV infections that lead to these changes in T-cell function. 
GDS1286 Analysis of esophageal cell line SKGT4 following exposure to low pH 6.5. Cells examined at various time points up to 2 hours following exposure. Results provide insight into role of gastric acid in pathogenesis of gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GORD) and esophagus adenocarcinoma.
GDS2642 Analysis of colonoscopic biopsies from patients with Crohn’s disease (CD) or ulcerative colitis (UC). CD and UC are inflammatory bowel diseases with variable, overlapping clinical features and complex pathophysiologies. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of CD and UC.
GDS2643 Analysis of B lymphocytes (BL) and plasma cells (PC) from patients with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia (WM), a B-lymphoproliferative disorder (BLPD). Results provide insight into differences between PC and BL from WM and their cell counterpart in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and multiple myeloma. 
GDS2838 Analysis of aneurysmal abdominal aortas (AAAs). Abdominal aortic aneurysms are a common disorder and mortality from ruptured AAAs is high. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of abdominal aortic aneurysm. 
GDS1288 Comparison of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) and undifferentiated embryonic stem cells (ESC). ESC plated on a monolayer of OP9 stromal cells in the presence of 20% heat inactivated fetal bovine serum in alpha MEM medium to induce differentiation into MSC. 
GDS1287 Comparison of circulating monocytes from pre- and postmenopausal females with low or high bone mineral density (BMD). Circulating monocytes are progenitors of osteoclasts, and produce factors important to bone metabolism. Results provide insight into the role of monocytes in osteoporosis. 
GDS1289 Analysis of epidermal keratinocytes treated with TNFalpha in the presence of 10 uM parthenolide, an NF-kappa B inhibitor. Cells examined at various time points up to 48 hours following TNFalpha treatment. Results identify NF-kappa B-dependent subset of TNFalpha-regulated genes.
GDS2307 Analysis of retinal pigment epithelial ARPE-19 cells following treatment with LDL or oxidatively modified LDL (ox-LDL) for 48 hours. Results provide insight into the role of ox-LDLs in the development of age-related macular degeneration.
GDS2104 Analysis of neuroblastoma SK-N-SH cells at various time points up to 24 hours following treatment with prostaglandin J2 (PGJ2), a neurotoxic product of inflammation. Results provide insight into mechanisms of PGJ2-induced accumulation/aggregation of ubiquitinated proteins and to neuronal cell death.
GDS2106 Analysis of lymphoblastoid cell lines of 57 unrelated CEPH individuals from the International HapMap Project. Results used to find association between the expression phenotypes and SNP markers across the genome genotyped on the 57 individuals that belong to various CEPH pedigrees.
GDS1480 Analysis of cultured abdominal subcutaneous preadipocytes from 7 male and 7 female non-diabetic obese Pima Indians. The prevalence of obesity in Pima Indians is among the highest of any population. Results provide insight into the role of preadipocytes in obesity and obesity-related inflammation.
GDS1481 Analysis of cultured abdominal subcutaneous preadipocytes from 7 male and 7 female non-diabetic obese Pima Indians. The prevalence of obesity in Pima Indians is among the highest of any population. Results provide insight into the role of preadipocytes in obesity and obesity-related inflammation.
GDS2847 Analysis of myeloid leukemia U937 cells treated with anisomycin for various time points up to 6 hours. Anisomycin is a potent inducer of apoptosis. Results provide insight into the mechanism of action of anisomycin in inducing apoptosis.
GDS2842 Analysis of testicular seminoma tumors at various stages of progression (pT1, pT2, pT3). Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of testicular seminoma.
GDS2310 Analysis of white blood cells (WBCs) from 5 males following exhaustive or moderate exercise. Results provide insight into the effects of exercise at the molecular level and the feasibility of using gene expression profiles of WBCs to monitor exercise and training load.
GDS2657 Analysis of HepG2 cells overexpressing miR-124 for up to 120 hours. Results combined with a computational method for predicting miRNA targets to identify targets of miR-124.
GDS2655 Analysis of circulating blood reticulocytes from umbilical cords and normal adults. Reticulocytes are immature red blood cells containing residual RNA. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of terminal erythroid differentiation.
GDS2656 Analysis of circulating blood reticulocytes from umbilical cords and normal adults. Reticulocytes are immature red blood cells containing residual RNA. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of terminal erythroid differentiation.
GDS2653 Analysis of IMR-32 neuroblastoma cells overexpressing sequestosome 1 (SQSTM1) or dipeptidylpeptidase III (DPP3). SQSTM1 and DPP3 activate the antioxidant response element (ARE). Results provide insight into mechanisms regulating the activation of the ARE.
GDS2652 Analysis of precentral gyri from neonates fed for 12 weeks with either a formula containing both 0.33% docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and 0.67% arachidonic acid (ARA) or one with 1.0% DHA and 0.67% ARA. DHA and AHA are the major long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids of the central nervous system.
GDS1478 Analysis of Caco-2 intestinal epithelial cells cocultured for 6 hours with the probiotic Escherichia coli strain Nissle 1917 (EcN). A controlled clinical trial suggests that EcN is effective in remission maintenance of ulcerative colitis. Results provide insight into EcN-host interactions.
GDS1479 Analysis of bladder biopsies of superficial transitional cell carcinomas with or without surrounding carcinoma in situ (CIS) lesions and muscle invasive carcinomas (mTCC). CIS is a common mTCC precursor. Results provide insight into which tumors in early stage bladder cancer are likely to progress.
GDS1476 Analysis of 7 uterine fibroids carrying fumarate hydratase (FH) mutations. FH catalyzes hydration of fumarate in the Krebs tricarboxylic acid cycle. Results provide insight into the connection between the disruption of mitochondrial metabolic pathways and neoplasia.
GDS2118 Analysis of CD34+ cells from 55 patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDSs). MDSs are a heterogeneous group of hematopoietic malignancies, characterized by blood cytopenias, ineffective hematopoiesis, and a hypercellular bone marrow. Results provide insight into the pathophysiology of MDS.
GDS1477 Expression profiling of BT-20 breast cancer cells 48 hours after transfection with FoxM1 siRNA. Elevated expression of FoxM1 has been observed in hepatocellular carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, and breast cancer. Results provide insight into the role of FoxM1 in cancer cell growth.
GDS2858 Analysis of microvascular endothelial cells (ECs) treated with the myeloid-related protein 8 (MRP8) and 14 (MRP14), proteins that form heterodimers secreted by phagocytes at inflammatory sites. Results provide insight into the role of MRP8 and MRP14 in EC cell death during inflammation.
GDS2856 Analysis of peripheral blood-derived monocytes at various time points up to 24 hours following treatment with lipopolysaccharide. Results compared with those obtained from Massively Parallel Signature Sequencing.
GDS2110 Analysis of whole adrenal glands collected at 4-hour intervals across a 24-hour period from adult females acclimated to a 12hr light, 12hr dark photoperiod. Results provide insight into the nature of oscillatory patterns of gene expression in the adrenal gland.
GDS2855 Analysis of muscle biopsy specimens from patients with various muscle diseases.  Results provide insight into the diagnosis and pathogenesis of muscle diseases.
GDS2622 Analysis of mammary epithelial MCF10A cells following treatment with epidermal growth factor for various time points up to 480 minutes. Results provide insight into the dynamics of growth factor signaling.
GDS2623 Analysis of cervical carcinoma HeLa cells following treatment with epidermal growth factor for various time points up to 480 minutes. Results provide insight into the dynamics of growth factor signaling.
GDS2819 Analysis of RNA samples prepared from leukemic white blood cells using 3 different protocols. Samples obtained from 27 pediatric patients with various subtypes of acute leukemia. Results provide insight into the impact of RNA preparation methods on the variation in gene expression data.
GDS2321 Analysis of granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) or polyethylene glycol-conjugated (pegylated) G-CSF mobilized CD34+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells from multiple myeloma patients undergoing chemotherapy. Pegylated G-CSF has a longer half-life than unconjugated G-CSF.
GDS2323 Analysis of breast cancer MCF7/BUS cells starved of estrogen for up to 2 days. Results compared to that from an experiment (GDS2324) examining the response to low concentrations of 17beta-estradiol (E2). Results provide insight into the E2 sensitivity of E2 inducible or suppressible genes.
GDS2324 Analysis of breast cancer MCF7/BUS cells treated with 17beta-estradiol (E2) at concentrations up to 100 pM. Results compared to that from an experiment examining the response to hormone starvation (GDS2323). Results provide insight into the E2 sensitivity of E2 inducible or suppressible genes.
GDS1269 Analysis of alveolar macrophages from 15 cigarette smokers, 15 non-smokers and 15 asthmatics. Results suggest that alveolar macrophage activation induced by smoking contributes to emphysema.
GDS2125 Analysis of SH-SY5Y cells undergoing PMA-induced neuronal maturational differentiation after transfection with a MeCP2 decoy to disrupt binding of MeCP2 to endogenous targets. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of Rett syndrome, a neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations in MeCP2.
GDS2618 Analysis of breast cancer cells that have high tumorigenic capacity.  These cells express CD44 and low or undetectable levels of CD24. Results used to define a gene expression signature associated with metastasis. 
GDS2617 Analysis of breast cancer cells that have high tumorigenic capacity.  These cells express CD44 and low or undetectable levels of CD24. Results used to define a gene expression signature associated with metastasis. 
GDS2821 Analysis of substantia nigrae from postmortem brains of patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD). Neurons in the substantia nigra, which produces dopamine, degenerate in PD. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of PD.
GDS2822 Analysis of inflamed placentas from patients with chronic placental malaria (PM). Chronic inflammation during PM is frequent in first time mothers and is associated with poor maternal and fetal outcomes. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of chronic PM.
GDS2824 Analysis of lymphoblastoid cells from males with autism due to a fragile X mutation or a 15q11-q13 duplication. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of autism spectrum disorders.
GDS1253 Expression profiling of 4 pituitary adenoma subtypes. Growth hormone (GH), prolactin (PRL), and adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) secreting pituitary adenomas, and non-functioning pituitary adenoma examined. 5 specimens pooled and examined for each subtype. Results provide insight into tumor pathogenesis.
GDS1252 Expression profiling of lung tissues from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), a progressive and lethal disorder characterized by the abnormal formation of fibrous scar tissue in the lungs. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of IPF.
GDS2827 Analysis of estrogen receptor (ER) alpha negative ERbeta-positive breast cancer tumors from patients treated with tamoxifen for 2 years. Unlike ERalpha-negative ERbeta-negative breast cancers, ERalpha-negative ERbeta-positive cancers respond favorably to tamoxifen treatment. 
GDS2332 Analysis of umbilical vein endothelial cells 4 hours following infection with adherent wild type, frpC-deficient mutant, or the non-adherent (delta pilD) mutant form of Neisseria meningitidis. Results provide insight into the role of adherence-mediated signaling in N. meningitidis infections.
GDS2333 Analysis of umbilical vein endothelial cells 1 and 6 hours following infection with adherent wild type or the non-adherent (delta pilD) mutant form of Neisseria meningitidis. Results provide insight into the role of adherence-mediated signaling in N. meningitidis infections.
GDS1250 Comparison of atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH) tissues from patients with and without a history of breast cancer. Incidence of invasive breast cancer is high in ADH patients. Results identify putative markers of invasive breast cancer.
GDS2635 Analysis of invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) cells, invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) cells, and their normal counterparts. Cells obtained from postmenopausal breast cancer patients.  Results provide insight into the molecular differences between IDC and ILC.
GDS1258 Expression profiling of pulmonary artery endothelial cells exposed to plasma from sickle cell disease (SCD) patients with sickle acute chest syndrome or from SCD patients at steady state. Results provide insight into the role of extra-erythrocytic factors in sickle cell vasoocclusion.  
GDS1257 Expression profiling of pulmonary artery endothelial cells exposed to plasma from sickle cell disease (SCD) patients with sickle acute chest syndrome or from SCD patients at steady state. Results provide insight into the role of extra-erythrocytic factors in sickle cell vasoocclusion.
GDS2339 Analysis of hepatoma HepG2 cells secreting the hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). Transfected cells examined 4 and 8 days after seeding. Results provide insight into the effect of persistently secreting HBsAg on the host cell.
GDS1256 Analysis of bronchial epithelial cells treated with interferon (IFN) gamma, or dexamethasone (dex), or both. IFN-gamma plays a role in lung inflammatory responses and corticosteroids such as dex are used as treatments for inflammation. Cells examined 8 or 24 hours after treatment.
GDS2832 Analysis of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) after treatment with sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) which plays a role in regulation of fate in many cell types. ESCs grown on mouse embryo fibroblast feeder cells and under feeder-free conditions. Results provide insight into the role of S1P in ESC renewal.
GDS1453 Analysis of renal epithelial cell line 293T following treatment with 2 uM camptothecin, which boosts transduction of cells by HIV. Camptothecin induces DNA damage and arrests cell cycle at G2/M. Results provide insight into the mechanisms underlying HIV transduction boost induced by camptothecin.
GDS2831 Analysis of donor lung biopsies from recipients that developed primary graft dysfunction after lung transplantation. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of primary lung graft dysfunction.
GDS2628 Analysis of bronchial muscle cells treated with 1alpha,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D3, the ligand for the vitamin D receptor (VDR). Genetic variants in VDR are associated with asthma. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of this association.
GDS2835 Comparison of endometriosis lesions to normal endometrial tissues obtained from the same patient at the same time. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of endometriosis.
GDS2834 Analysis of SVGR2 glial cells resistant to the human polyomavirus JCV, the causative agent of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. SVGR2 cells are derived from susceptible glial cells (SVG-A). Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying susceptibility to JCV infection.
GDS2833 Analysis of SVGR2 glial cells resistant to the human polyomavirus JCV, the causative agent of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. SVGR2 cells are derived from susceptible glial cells (SVG-A). Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying susceptibility to JCV infection.
GDS1249 Temporal analysis of monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DCs) treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), an agonist for toll-like receptor (TLR) 4, the synthetic imidazoquinoline resiquimod R848, an agonist for TLR8, or both. Provides insight into the synergistic effect of TLR agonists in activating DCs.
GDS2342 Analysis of CD34+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells from the bone marrow of untreated patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) in first chronic phase. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of chronic phase CML.
GDS2603 Analysis of p53-expressing or p53-deficient fibroblasts exposed to arsenite (As) after release from G2 phase synchrony. p53 is activated in response to mitotic disruption by arsenic. Results provide insight into the role of p53 in the As-induced disruption of G2/M phase progression.
GDS2341 Analysis of lung epithelial A549 cells 6 and 24 hours following treatment with type I interferon (IFN), type II IFN, or both. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the synergistic antiviral and antiproliferative effects observed when type I and type II IFNs are combined.
GDS3207 Analysis of leukocytes from individuals experiencing chronically high levels of subjective social isolation (loneliness). Social environment is known to influence human health. Results provide insight into transcriptional alterations in the immune system induced by chronic social isolation.
GDS3474 Analysis of skeletal muscles from patients with limb girdle muscular dystrophy 2A (LGMD2A). LGMD2A is a recessive genetic disorder caused by mutations in calpain 3 (CAPN3). Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of LGMD2A.
GDS2604 Analysis of epithelial and mesothelial lung cell lines at various time points up to 7 days after exposure to asbestos. Asbestos exposure causes lung diseases such as asbestosis, malignant mesothelioma, and lung cancer. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of asbestos-associated diseases.
GDS3475 Analysis of skeletal muscles from patients with limb girdle muscular dystrophy 2A (LGMD2A). LGMD2A is a recessive genetic disorder caused by mutations in calpain 3 (CAPN3). Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of LGMD2A.
GDS3472 Analysis of Barrett's esophagus (BE), normal esophageal, and small intestinal biopsies. In BE, normal esophageal squamous epithelium transdifferentiates into  simple columnar epithelium resembling that of small intestine. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of this transdifferentiation.
GDS2601 Analysis of blood mononuclear cells of sporadic Alzheimer disease (AD) and age- gender-matched normal controls. Results reveal insights into systemic nature of gene dys-regulation in sporadic AD and suggest novel pathways of beta-amyloid deposition.
GDS3203 Analysis of monocytes following up to 168 hours of adherence-induced differentiation. Monocytes differentiate into macrophages, which are critical in the pathogenesis of many diseases. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying monocyte to macrophage differentiation.
GDS3470 Analysis of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) overexpressing wild-type miR-122. miR-122 is an endoderm specific microRNA. Results provide insight into the role of miR-122 in the differentiation of ESCs.
GDS3471 Analysis of B-precursor acute lymphoblastic (ALL) tumor cells exposed to ionizing radiation (IR) to induce DNA damage in vitro. Half of the tumors are sensitive to IR induced apoptosis. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the differences in response of B-precursor ALL to IR.
GDS2889 Analysis of microvascular endothelial cells treated at various concentrations of the model air pollutant diesel exhaust particles (DEP), an oxidized phospholipid (ox-PAPC), or both. Results provide insight into the synergistic effect of DEP and ox-PAPC in promoting vascular inflammation. 
GDS2887 Analysis of lymphocytes from patients with moderate stage Huntington's disease (HD). Results provide insight into the feasibility of using gene expression to identify biomarkers for moderate stage HD.
GDS2880 Analysis of patient matched normal and stage 1 or stage 2 clear cell renal cell carcinoma (cRCC) tumors. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of cRCC.
GDS2881 Analysis of patient matched normal and stage 1 or stage 2 clear cell renal cell carcinoma (cRCC) tumors. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of cRCC.
GDS2883 Analysis of Jurkat T-cells depleted for the LEDGF/p75 transcription factor. LEDGF/p75 is involved in targeting HIV DNA integration. Results provide insight into the mechanisms controlling HIV integration.
GDS1237 Expression profiling of NB4 promyelocytic leukemic cells infected with Anaplasma phagocytophilum, an obligate intracellular bacterium that causes granulocytic anaplasmosis. NB4 is a model for neutrophil maturation. Results provide insight into host cellular pathways affected by A. phagocytophilum.
GDS1235 Expression profiling of bone marrow from pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). 10 B-cell ALL, 5 T-cell ALL, and 3 B-cell ALL, with the MLL/AF4 chromosomal rearrangement, patients examined. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of childhood ALL.  
GDS3489 Analysis of metastatic melanoma FEMX-I cells depleted for CD133. CD133 is a cancer stem cell-associated antigen expressed in many malignancies such as melanoma. Results provide insight into the role of CD133 in cancer progression.
GDS2358 Analysis of non-small-cell lung carcinoma H157 cells following DJ-1 siRNA knockdown. DJ-1, a cancer- and Parkinson's disease-associated protein, protects cells from toxic stresses.
GDS2356 Analysis of unstaged hair follicles from males and females. Results provide insight into the feasibility of extracting intact RNA, from a small number of hair follicles, in sufficient quantities for expression profiling.
GDS2615 Analysis of primary airway epithelial cells cultured at an air-liquid interface for up to 28 days to induce their differentiation into polarized, pseudostratified epithelia of ciliated and mucus-secreting cells. Results provide insight into the mechanisms underlying mucociliary differentiation.
GDS3487 Analysis of myeloid leukemia K562 cells depleted for cAMP Response Element Binding Protein (CREB), a transcription factor. CREB is overexpressed in bone marrow samples of patients with acute leukemia. Results provides insight into the molecular mechanisms by which CREB contributes to acute leukemia.
GDS2352 Analysis of resting Jurkat T cells and derived mutants lacking T cell receptor (TCR) signaling proteins. Even without TCR engagement, the signaling pathways normally responsive to TCR are not inert. Results provide insight into the transcriptional consequences of the constitutive signaling pathway.
GDS2613 Analysis of brain frontal cortices of individuals with Rett syndrome (RTT). RTT is an X-linked neurodevelopmental disorder linked to heterozygous de novo mutations in MECP2, a gene encoding methyl-CpG-binding protein 2. Results provide insight into molecular pathogenesis of RTT.
GDS3481 Analysis of cells overexpressing NOR1 or the EWS/NOR1 fusion gene. NOR1 encodes an orphan nuclear receptor.  The EWS gene is involved in various malignancies by way of chromosomal translocations, and the EWS/NOR1 gene fusion is implicated in the pathogenesis of extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcomas.
GDS2611 Analysis of cultured epidermal keratinocytes treated with various cytokines of the interleukin-20 (IL-20) subfamily. IL-20 cytokines are up-regulated in psoriatic skin. Results provide insight into the role of IL-20 cytokines in the pathogenesis of psoriasis.
GDS3482 Analysis of early and late passage HCT116 colon cancer cells depleted for X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP). XIAP is overexpressed in the majority of NCI 60 cell lines compared to normal cells suggesting a potential role as a therapeutic target in a wide spectrum of malignancies. 
GDS1230 Comparison of CD34+CD33-CD38-Rho(lo)c-kit+ cells, enriched for hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSC), to CD34+CD33-CD38-Rho(hi) cells, enriched for committed hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPC). Cells obtained from umbilical cord blood and bone marrow. Provides insight into control of HSC fate.
GDS3483 Analysis of pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells subjected to hypoxia for up to 48 hours. Pulmonary hypoxia is a common complication of chronic lung diseases leading to the development of pulmonary hypertension. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of pulmonary hypertension.
GDS1231 Comparison of CD34+CD33-CD38-Rho(lo)c-kit+ cells, enriched for hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSC), to CD34+CD33-CD38-Rho(hi) cells, enriched for committed hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPC). Cells obtained from umbilical cord blood and bone marrow. Provides insight into control of HSC fate.
GDS3484 Analysis of breast cancer MCF-7 cells stimulated with insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) for 3 or 24 hours. High serum IGF-I levels are associated with an elevated risk of breast cancer. Results provide insight into the role of IGF-1 in the development and progression of breast cancer.
GDS2609 Analysis of normal-appearing colonic mucosa of early onset colorectal cancer (CRC) patients without a prior family history of CRC. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of early onset CRC.
GDS2606 Analysis of bronchial epithelial BEAS-2B cells exposed to UV-inactivated Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, or respiratory syncytial virus. Results provide insight into the common and specific molecular responses of bronchial epithelial cells to various airway pathogens.
GDS2892 Analysis of HeLa cells depleted for optineurin using RNAi knockdown. Mutations in the gene for optineurin are associated with open-angle glaucoma. Results provide insight into the function of optineurin and its role in the pathogenesis of open-angle glaucoma.
GDS2368 Analysis of undifferentiated and differentiated preadipocytes from abdominal subcutaneous, mesenteric, and greater omental regions. Separate fat depots differ in size, function, and contribution to pathological states. Results provide insight into the contribution of preadipocytes to this variation.
GDS2367 Analysis of estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha)-positive MCF-7 breast cancer (BC) cells infected with adenovirus-ERbeta and treated with tamoxifen (Tam). Tam is a selective ER modulator used in BC prevention and treatment. Results provide insight into Tam activity in the presence of both ERs.
GDS3220 Analysis of MCF10A mammary epithelial cells overexpressing the transcriptional coactivator YAP.  The Hippo pathway impinges on YAP in mammals to coordinate cell proliferation and apoptosis. Results provide insight into molecular components of the Hippo pathway in mammalian cells.
GDS2369 Analysis of BL41K3 and BJABK3 B-cells following activation of a conditional estrogen-responsive Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) nuclear antigen 2 (EBNA-2) protein. Both B-cell lines are EBV negative. Results identify downstream targets of EBNA-2.
GDS3223 Analysis of primary esophageal epithelial cells from eosinophilic esophagitis (EE) patients following 100ng/mL interleukin-13 (IL-13) stimulation. The T-helper type 2 cytokine IL-13 plays a pivotal role in eosinophilic inflammation. Results provide insight into the role of IL-13 in EE pathogenesis.
GDS3494 Analysis of normal bronchial epithelial cells exposed to cigarette smoke from a typical light flavor brand for up to 24 hours. Results provide insight into the impact of cigarette smoke exposure at the molecular level.
GDS3495 Analysis of skin fibroblasts induced to express GFP-progerin for up to 10 days. Progerin is a mutant form of lamin A and the causal agent of premature-ageing disease Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome (HGPS). Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying this pathological effect.
GDS2362 Comparison of peripheral blood mononuclear cells of subjects with early, presymptomatic, experimentally acquired malaria to those with acute, uncomplicated, naturally acquired malaria. Results provide insight into the immune response to malaria in these two stages of infection.
GDS1221 Analysis of peripheral blood and bone marrow of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) patients prior to imatinib (Gleevec) treatment. Imatinib induces complete cytogenetic response (CCR) in most CML patients. This study attempts to determine transcriptional signature of imatinib non-responders.
GDS3492 Analysis of activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) induced to senesce by treatment with a DNA-damaging agent. Upon activation in response to liver damage, HSCs proliferate and produce the extracellular matrix deposited in the fibrotic scar. Senescence of activated HSCs limits liver fibrosis.  
GDS3493 Analysis of normal bronchial epithelial cells exposed to cigarette smoke from a typical full flavor brand for up to 24 hours. Results provide insight into the impact of cigarette smoke exposure at the molecular level.
GDS3498 Analysis of cultured peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) stimulated with interleukin-12 (IL-12). PBMCs obtained from 7 donors. IL-12 plays a central role in adaptive and innate immunity. Results provide further insight into the effects of IL-12 on the immune response.
GDS3499 Analysis of cultured monocytes following TREM-1 activation by treatment with an antibody against TREM-1. TREM-1 is an immunoreceptor expressed on monocytes, macrophages, and neutrophils. Results provide insight into the cellular consequences of TREM-1 activation.
GDS2366 Analysis of undifferentiated and differentiated preadipocytes from abdominal subcutaneous, mesenteric, and greater omental regions. Separate fat depots differ in size, function, and contribution to pathological states. Results provide insight into the contribution of preadipocytes to this variation.
GDS3496 Analysis of alveolar macrophages from cigarette smokers. Cigarette smoking is associated with increased lung cell turnover. Mononuclear phagocytes, such as macrophages, play an important role in the removal of apoptotic cells.
GDS3497 Analysis of cultured peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) stimulated with interleukin-12 (IL-12). PBMCs obtained from 7 donors. IL-12 plays a central role in adaptive and innate immunity. Results provide further insight into the effects of IL-12 on the immune response.
GDS2865 Comparison of poorly and highly metastatic prostate subcutaneous tumors derived from xenotransplanted human PC-3 prostate cancer cells. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms contributing to prostate cancer metastasis. 
GDS2866 Analysis of monocyte-derived macrophages from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients after in vitro treatment with a mix of fine titanium dioxide (TiO2) and ultrafine Printex 90 particles, or lipopolysaccharide (LPS). TiO2 and Printex 90 are used in the manufacture of many products.
GDS2867 Analysis of H1299 cells expressing the TAp63alpha-Q540L mutant protein. TAp63alpha-Q540L is a form of p63 that contains a missense mutation in the SAM domain. Mutations in the SAM domain of p63 are associated with Hay-Wells syndrome.
GDS2868 Analysis of vastus lateralis skeletal muscle biopsies from older males and females (aged 55-80 years) before and during a diet inadequate in proteins. Results provide insight into the molecular changes in skeletal muscles brought about by inadequate dietary protein intake.
GDS2860 Analysis of aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA) samples from patients with primary hyperaldosteronism (PA). The source of aldosterone in many patients with PA is unilateral APA. Results provide insight into the mechanisms causing elevated aldosterone production in APA.
GDS2861 Analysis of MCF7 breast cancer (BC) cells overexpressing spliced X-box binding protein-1 (XBP1), a transcription factor that participates in the unfolded protein response (UPR). Results provide insight into the role of XBP1 and the UPR in estrogen and antiestrogen responsiveness in breast cancer.
GDS2378 Analysis of CD34+ hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) treated with UTP, alpha-chemokine CXCL12, or both. CXCL12 is a HSC chemoattractant secreted by the bone marrow. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the enhancement of CXCL12-dependent HSC migration by UTP.
GDS1215 Analysis of acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML) cell line, OCI/AML-2, following treatment with valproic acid (VPA) and all trans retinoic acid (ATRA). VPA inhibits histone deacetylase. Results provide insight into the responsiveness of AML cells to ATRA when VPA is present.
GDS3211 Analysis of gingival epithelial HIGK cells infected with Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans or Porphyromonas gingivalis. A. actinomycetemcomitans and P. gingivalis cause periodontal infections. Results provide insight into differences in epithelial cell responses to these pathogens.
GDS1212 Temporal analysis of the effect of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)  on gene expression in HeLa cells with NF-kappaB inactivated. NF-kappaB inactivated with 2 ug/ml doxycycline. Cells examined at various time points following stimulation with 25 ng/ml TNF. Results identify potential targets of NF-kappaB.
GDS2373 Analysis of primary squamous cell lung carcinomas (SCCs) from 129 patients. SCCs and adenocarcinomas compose the majority of non small cell lung cancers. Gene expression profiles were compared to clinical outcome. 
GDS1210 Expression profiling of 22 primary advanced gastric cancer tissues. Whole gastric cancer tissues examined in the presence of metastasis and according to histological type. Results provide insight into the progression and diversity of gastric cancer.
GDS3215 Analysis of cultured sebaceous gland cells (SEB-1 sebocytes) treated with 13-cis retinoic acid (13-cis RA, isotretinoin), a potent acne treatment agent that reduces the size and secretion of sebaceous glands. Results provide insight into the molecular basis for 13-cis RA's acne-clearing effect.
GDS3217 Analysis of estrogen receptor (ER)-positive MCF7 breast cancer cells up to 48 hours following treatment with estradiol (E2). ERs facilitate the transcriptional effects of hormones. These results, together with ChIP-PET results, suggest potential correlations between ER binding and gene regulation.
GDS3218 Analysis of upper back skin biopsies of acne patients treated with 13-cis retinoic acid (13-cis RA, isotretinoin), a potent acne treatment agent that reduces the size and secretion of sebaceous glands. Results provide insight into the molecular basis for 13-cis RA's acne-clearing effect.
GDS2374 Analysis of hyperplastic adrenal glands from patients with glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide (GIP)-dependent Cushing's Syndrome (CS) or ACTH-dependent CS. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the ectopic adrenal expression of GIPR in GIP-dependent CS.
GDS1497 Analysis of cultured abdominal subcutaneous mature adipocytes from 9 male and 10 female non-diabetic obese Pima Indians. The prevalence of obesity in Pima Indians is among the highest of any population. Results provide insight into the role of adipocytes in obesity and obesity-related inflammation.
GDS1496 Analysis of cultured abdominal subcutaneous mature adipocytes from 9 male and 10 female non-diabetic obese Pima Indians. The prevalence of obesity in Pima Indians is among the highest of any population. Results provide insight into the role of adipocytes in obesity and obesity-related inflammation.
GDS1495 Analysis of cultured abdominal subcutaneous mature adipocytes from 9 male and 10 female non-diabetic obese Pima Indians. The prevalence of obesity in Pima Indians is among the highest of any population. Results provide insight into the role of adipocytes in obesity and obesity-related inflammation.
GDS1499 Analysis of HEK293 embryonic kidney cells overexpressing wild type hepatocyte nuclear factor (HNF) 1beta or HNF1alpha, or the HNF1beta A263insGG mutant. Results identify gene targets of HNF1 beta, and provide insight into the functional differences between HNF1beta and HNF1alpha.
GDS1209 Expression profiling of soft tissue sarcoma samples. Hypoxic regions often develop in tumors as they increase in size. Results provide insight into the expression of hypoxia-related genes in sarcomas.
GDS1498 Analysis of cultured abdominal subcutaneous mature adipocytes from 9 male and 10 female non-diabetic obese Pima Indians. The prevalence of obesity in Pima Indians is among the highest of any population. Results provide insight into the role of adipocytes in obesity and obesity-related inflammation.
GDS1510 Analysis of normal endometrial epithelial cells following treatment with oestrogen or tamoxifen (TMX).  Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the association of TMX treatment of breast cancer with an increased incidence of endometrial cancer.
GDS358 Molecular characterization of lepromatous leprosy (LL) and borderline tuberculoid (BT) leprosy skin lesions.
GDS1317 Analysis of endothelial cells (HUVEC) isolated from umbilical veins subjected to high shear stress or high intraluminal pressure. Umbilical veins exposed to each stimuli using a vascular ex vivo perfusion system. Results suggests that response to shear stress differs from response to pressure.
GDS1312 Expression profiling of squamous lung cancer biopsy specimens and paired normal specimens from 5 patients. Differentially expressed genes integrated with protein interaction maps. Results suggest that differentially expressed genes are highly connected through protein interactions.
GDS1314 Expression profiling of MelJUSO, A375, 607B, 518A2, and Skmel 28 malignant melanoma cell lines. Results correlated with regions of chromosomal breakpoints, and indicate an association between chromosomal breakpoints and altered gene expression.
GDS1313 Analysis of glial fibrillary acidic acid (GFAP)-negative lamina cribrosa (LC) glial cell response to 10 ng/ml TGF-beta1 for 24 hours. This is a model for primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in which TGF-beta levels are elevated in human LC tissue.
GDS1523 Analysis of 10 ovarian cancer cell lines: 4 ovarian serous adenocarcinomas, 1 paclitaxel/cisplatin resistant ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line derivative, 5 ovarian clear cell adenocarcinomas. Expression profile of each cell line compared to its sensitivity to paclitaxel and cisplatin.
GDS1520 Analysis of umbilical cord blood-derived mast cells 2 hours post stimulation by high-affinity IgE receptor (FcεRI). Cells incubated with myeloma IgE and IL-4 prior to stimulation. Cells activated via FcεRI with anti-IgE antibody to induce release of antihistamines and other inflammation mediators.
GDS1713 Analysis of Ewing family tumor (EFT) and neuroblastoma (NB) samples. Distinguishing EFTs from other small round blue cell tumors (SRBCTs), such as NBs, by histologic methods is often difficult. Results identify EF-associated genes that enable molecular discrimination between EFTs and other SRBCTs.
GDS1714 Analysis of mutagen-sensitive lymphoblastoid cell lines after exposure to bleomycin. Mutagen-sensitive cells exhibit a high number of bleomycin-induced chromatid breaks. Mutagen sensitivity (MS) reflects an individual's susceptibility to sporadic cancers. Results identify genes involved in MS.
GDS1904 Analysis of various wild type murine tissues using a glycogene array. Glycosylation is the most common posttranslational modification of proteins. Results used to determine whether glycogene expression profiles could be used for the analysis of glycan synthesis and function.
GDS1710 Analysis of C2C12 myoblast cell line following RNAi knockdown of the bHLH transcription factor MyoD. RNA prepared from cells after 1, 3, and 6 days of myogenic differentiation in DMEM medium supplemented with 2% horse serum. Results identify targets of MyoD.
GDS1902 Analysis of colon adenocarcinoma HT29 cells at various time points up to 12 hours following treatment with 2 or 10 nM of the cyanobacterial metabolite apratoxin A. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the cytotoxic effect of apratoxin A on tumor cells.
GDS1321 Expression profiling of normal esophageal epithelium, premalignant Barrett's metaplasia, and esophageal adenocarcinoma samples. Tissue samples of each type obtained from 8 patients by transhiatal esophagectomy. Results identify potential markers of disease progression.
GDS1320 Analysis of Scott B lymphoblasts after calcium ionophore A23187 treatment. Lymphoblasts derived from a patient with Scott syndrome, a hemorrhagic disease. Results provide insight into the mechanisms underlying the apoptotic effect of A23187, and susceptibility of Scott B lymphoblasts to apoptosis.
GDS1329 Analysis of tumors of 49 breast cancer patients. Tumors classified into luminal and basal classes, and a novel molecular apocrine class. Apocrine tumors are estrogen receptor negative (ER-) and androgen receptor positive (AR+), while luminal tumors are ER+ and AR+, and basal tumors are ER- and AR-.
GDS1327 Comparison of lens epithelial cells to lens cortical fiber cells. Cells microdissected from lenses of post mortem donors. Results identify genes that may play roles in maintaining the specialized functions of each cell type and provides insight into potential mechanisms of lens cell differentiation.
GDS1326 Analysis of the response of estrogen receptor (ER) negative MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells infected with full-length ER alpha adenoviral constructs to treatment with 17beta-estradiol (E2). Results provide insight into the anti-proliferative effect of E2 on breast cancer cells reexpressing ER.
GDS1325 Analysis of CD4+ T cells overexpressing green fluorescent protein telomerase reverse transcriptase fusion protein (GFP-hTERT). hTERT encodes catalytic reverse transcriptase subunit of telomerase. Provides insight into long-term consequences of hTERT overexpression in T lymphocytes.
GDS1324 Analysis of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) samples containing t(10;11)(p13;q14-21) translocation that fuses the clathrin-assembly protein-like lymphoid-myeloid leukemia gene CALM to the transcription factor AF10. Results provide insight into the consequences of CALM-AF10 expression.
GDS2794 Analysis of T-cell acute lymphoblast leukemia (T-ALL) MOLT4 cells following gamma-secretase inhibitor (GSI) DAPT treatment. Gamma-secretase activity is required for Notch 1 receptor signaling. Results provide insight into the role of Notch signaling in T-ALL development.
GDS2791 Analysis of skeletal muscles from non-diabetics after a 2 hour infusion of insulin. Glucose uptake by skeletal muscles in response to insulin is impaired in type 2 diabetes. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms regulating glucose homeostasis in response to insulin.
GDS2790 Analysis of skeletal muscles from non-diabetics after a 3 hour infusion of insulin. Glucose uptake by skeletal muscles in response to insulin is impaired in type 2 diabetes. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms regulating glucose homeostasis in response to insulin.
GDS1700 Analysis of peripheral blood lymphocytes from 4 renal allograft recipients with acute rejection and concurrent anemia. Compromised renal function after renal allograft transplantation often results in anemia. Results provide insight into the molecular events underlying anemia in acute rejection.
GDS337 Effect of overexpression of the telomerase catalytic subunit (TERT) in mammary epithelial cells (HMEC).  Findings imply that ectopic telomerase expression modulates growth-controlling genes and enhances cell proliferation.
GDS2782 Analysis of DHT-stimulated LNCaP prostate cells treated with an androgen response (AR) element (ARE) specific DNA binding polyamide. Polyamide designed to target the sequence 5'-WGWWCW-3' and disrupt AR-mediated gene expression. Effects of the synthetic antiandrogen bicalutamide also examined.
GDS2781 Analysis of HeLa cells depleted for the nonsense-mediated decay (NMD)-keys factor UPF1. NMD represents a key mechanism to control the expression of wild-type and aberrant mRNAs. Results provide insight into the extent of gene regulation mediated by UPF1 activity.
GDS1504 Expression profiling of three fibroblast cell lines derived from Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) patients. Identified changes in gene expression may provide clues to potential risk factors or factors influencing disease progression.
GDS2780 Analysis of liver carcinoma HepG2 cells exposed to various heavy metals. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of heavy metal cytotoxicity.
GDS1505 Comparison of cultured skin substitute (CSS), cultured keratinocytes, cultured fibroblasts, and native skin. CSS contains fibroblasts and keratinocytes, and can facilitate wound healing. Results provide insight into physiological and molecular differences between CSS and native skin.
GDS1503 Expression profiling of three fibroblast cell lines derived from Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) patients. Identified changes in gene expression may provide clues to potential risk factors or factors influencing disease progression.
GDS2789 Analysis of breast cancer MCF-7 cells after the induction of expression of a dominant negative form of the cofactor of LIM domains (CLIM), a co-regulator of the nuclear LIM only protein 4 (LMO4). LMO4 is upregulated in breast cancer. Results provide insight into the role of LMO4 in tumor formation.
GDS2788 Analysis of breast cancer MCF-7 cells following the induction of expression of nuclear LIM-only protein 4 (LMO4). LMO4 is upregulated in breast cancer. Results provide insight into the role of LMO4 in promoting tumor formation.
GDS2787 Analysis of breast cancer MCF-7 cells following the induction of expression of nuclear LIM-only protein 4 (LMO4). LMO4 is upregulated in breast cancer. Results provide insight into the role of LMO4 in promoting tumor formation.
GDS2785 Analysis of malignant ovarian cancer tumors from patients receiving neo-adjuvant chemotherapy. Ovarian adenomas and untreated ovarian carcinomas also examined.  Results used to define gene expression signatures associated with clinical responses to chemotherapy.
GDS1304 Analysis of phenotypically normal 10th to 12th order small airway bronchial epithelia from cigarette smokers. Cigarette smoking is the most common cause of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Results provide insight into the early pathogenesis of COPD.
GDS1557 Analysis of right atria and left ventricles of hearts. While both the ventricle and atrium contract, the atrium is also a source and target for neurohumoral signals. Results provide insight into the molecular basis for the ultrastructural and functional differences between the atrium and ventricle.
GDS1559 Analysis of atrium from patients with permanent atrial fibrillation (AF). AF is associated with extensive structural, contractile, and electrophysiological remodeling. Results identify adoption of a ventricular-like genomic signature as a general feature of the fibrillating atrium.  
GDS1553 Analysis of umbilical vein endothelial cells (ECs) treated with hydroxyl fullerene, a major nanomaterial. Nanomaterials are known to translocate into the circulation and may thus directly affect vascular ECs. Results provide insight into the effects of fullerenes on endothelial injury and toxicity.
GDS2573 Analysis of primary skin fibroblasts (Hs68) following siRNA knockdown of far-upstream element binding protein (FBP) 1, 2, or 3. Results provide insight into the function of each member of the FBP transactivator family.
GDS1965 Expression profiling of normal melanocytes, primary melanoma cells, and metastatic melanoma cells. Results provide insight into changes in advanced melanoma relative to normal melanocytes and reveal new targets that can be used in assessing prognosis, staging, and therapy of melanoma patients.
GDS1960 Analysis of testicular diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) tissues with small homozygous HLA-DQ/HLA-DR deletions, larger hemizygous MHC complex deletions, or without deletions. Results provide insight into the significance of the downregulation of HLA class II expression in testicular DLBCL.
GDS1962 Analysis of gliomas of different grades. Stem cell factor (SCF) is overexpressed by glioma cells but its role in gliomagenesis has been unclear. Results identify a positive correlation of SCF expression with increasing glioma grade which supports a role for SCF in tumor angiogenesis in the brain.
GDS1563 Analysis of whole blood from Kenyan children with acute malaria or other febrile illnesses, both at hospital admission and after recovery. Samples collected during July September 2002. Results provide a perspective of the host response to malaria and further insight into processes of pathogenesis.
GDS1562 Analysis of 14 tumor biopsies from children affected by alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma (ARMS). Seven patients were positive for the PAX3-FKHR fusion gene, which indicates an unfavorable prognosis. Results identify expression signatures that differentiate PAX3-FKHR positive from PAX3-FKHR negative ARMS.
GDS1568 Analysis of fibroblasts at various time points up to 36 hours after serum stimulation. The fibroblast serum response represents a wound healing program; cancer progression is likened to wound healing gone awry. Results provide insight into the significance of the wound healing process in cancer.  
GDS1023 Human-goat chimerism achieved by transplanting human CD34+Lin- cord blood cells into fetal goats. Markers indicate human genes expressed in goat liver and blood. Human/goat hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) xenogeneic model allows analysis of HSC transplantation, expansion and differentiation in vivo.
GDS1022 Analysis of A549 lung pneumocytes after infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA) PAK mutants deleted for various components of the type III secretion system (TTSS).  Mutants in TTSS effectors and translocators studied.  PA causes serious respiratory infections in cystic fibrosis patients.  
GDS2563 Analysis of T lymphocytes of 3 male heavy smokers. Results provide insight into sensitivity of T lymphocytes to cigarette smoking.
GDS1020 Expression profiling of peripheral mononuclear blood cells (PMBC) from patients with post-traumatic stress disorder. PMBC samples obtained from patients a few hours and 4 months after exposure to psychological stress. 
GDS1956 Analysis of muscle biopsy specimens from patients with various muscle diseases. Results provide insight into the diagnosis and pathogenesis of muscle diseases.
GDS2565 Analysis of pulmonary artery endothelial cells HPAEC exposed to ultrafine particles for 4 hours. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the association of pollutant particle exposure to increased cardiovascular mortality and morbidity.
GDS1954 Comparison of expression profiles generated using various T7 RNA polymerase-based in vitro transcription (IVT) RNA labeling methods. The length of the IVT reactions ranged from 4 to 16 hours. Results provide evidence for amplification method-dependent biases in gene expression data.
GDS1028 Expression profiling of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from 10 adult patients with severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). Results provide insight into the host immune response to the SARS coronavirus.
GDS1530 Analysis of fibroblasts infected with cytomegalovirus (CMV) AD169 strain or a derivative lacking the CMV chemokine receptor US28. Cells examined at 50, 72, and 98 hours post-infection. Results identify pathways affected by CMV and provide insight into the role of US28 in the late phase of infection.
GDS386 Temporal analysis of arthritic synovial biopsies treated with TNF alpha at 0, 4 and 24 hours.
GDS2416 Analysis of 33 biopsies from 11 cervical cancer patients. Biopsies were obtained from 2 to 5 different areas of each tumor. Results provide insight into the extent of intratumor heterogeneity in gene expression in cervical cancer patients.
GDS2415 Analysis of primary breast carcinoma tumors from 50 patients who received breast-conserving therapy (BCT). 19 patients subsequently developed a local recurrence of the carcinoma. 9 recurrent tumors also examined. Compared to mastectomy, BCT is associated with a higher rate of local recurrence.
GDS2418 Analysis of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) lesions. VIN is a premalignant disorder caused by human papillomaviruses. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of VIN.
GDS2414 Analysis of decidualized endometrial stromal cells at various time points up to 12 hours following treatment with conditioned media from trophoblasts. Results provide insight into the paracrine signaling between the trophoblast and the decidua.
GDS1036 Expression profiling of microglial cells obtained from 4 different samples following treatment with 200 u/ml interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma).  Cells examined 1, 6, and 4 hours after treatment.  Results provide insight into the regulation of immune functions in microglia by IFN-gamma.  
GDS1942 Analysis of RKO colon cancer cell line treated for up to 24 hours with ponasterone A to induce expression of a full-length, transgenic Krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4). KLF4 is an epithelially-enriched, zinc finger transcription factor. Results provide insight into the biochemical function of KLF4. 
GDS1926 Temporal analysis of umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) treated with leukotriene D4 (LTD4) and/or thrombin. LTD4 activates the cysteinyl leukotriene receptor cysLT2-R. Thrombin activates the protease-activated receptor PAR-1. cysLT2-R and PAR-1 may cooperate to augment vascular injury.
GDS1925 Analysis of estrogen receptor (ER) alpha positive MCF-7 breast cancer cells overexpressing constitutively active Raf-1, constitutively active MEK, constitutively active c-erbB-2, or ligand-activatable EGFR. Results indicate that increased MAPK activation results in loss of ER-alpha expression.
GDS395 Temporal gene expression analysis of fetal lung fibroblast cell line IMR-90 seeded onto collagen/chondroitin sulfate tissue engineering scaffold mesh material. Integration of genomic information with biomaterial engineering.
GDS1543 Analysis of microvascular endothelial cells (HMEC) stimulated with tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha for 5 hours. TNF is a potent inflammatory stimulus. Results provide insight into the relevance of the diversity of endothelial cell subtypes for the response to inflammatory stimuli.
GDS390 Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is an autoimmune hematologic disorder. CD3+ cells were studied in duplicate from healthy controls, patients with active ITP and patients with ITP in remission.
GDS1542 Analysis of macrovascular umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) stimulated with tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha for 5 hours. TNF is a potent inflammatory stimulus. Results provide insight into the relevance of the diversity of endothelial cell subtypes for the response to inflammatory stimuli.
GDS1549 Expression profiling of estrogen receptor positive breast cancer cell lines treated with estradiol for 24 hours. MCF-7, T47-D, and BT-474 breast cancer cell lines examined. Results identify candidate genes involved in estrogen stimulated breast cancer growth. 
GDS1548 Analysis of four cell lines initially established as neuroblastomas. Results indicate that the SK-N-MC cell line expresses all of the Ewing Family Tumor (EFT) signature genes. EFTs are small round blue cell tumors that show features of neuroectodermal differentiation.  
GDS2548 Analysis of the deciduas, placentas, and fat tissues of preeclamptic women. The decidua and the placenta are two tissues of the uteroplacental unit. Results provide insight into the role of the uteroplacental renin-angiotensin system in the pathogenesis of preeclampsia.
GDS596 Gene atlas of human protein-encoding transcriptome. Examined gene expression profiles from 79 physiologically normal tissues obtained from various sources.
GDS2547 Analysis of metastatic prostate tumors and primary prostate tumors.  Normal tissue adjacent to the tumor and normal donor tissue also examined. Metastasis reflects the most adverse clinical outcome. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the metastatic process.
GDS1048 Expression profiling of lymphoblastoid cell lines from 15 CEPH/Utah families.  Cell lines from 3 generations examined.  Results provide insight into the heritability of gene expression traits in segregating human populations.
GDS2546 Analysis of metastatic prostate tumors and primary prostate tumors.  Normal tissue adjacent to the tumor and normal donor tissue also examined. Metastasis reflects the most adverse clinical outcome. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the metastatic process.
GDS594 Gene atlas of human protein-encoding transcriptome. Examined gene expression profiles from 79 physiologically normal tissues obtained from various sources.
GDS2545 Analysis of metastatic prostate tumors and primary prostate tumors.  Normal tissue adjacent to the tumor and normal donor tissue also examined. Metastasis reflects the most adverse clinical outcome. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the metastatic process.
GDS563 Search for modifying factors and pathogenic pathways involved in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Quadricep skeletal muscle biopsies from 12 DMD patients and 11 unaffected control patients examined.
GDS1059 Analysis of mononuclear cells from 54 chemotherapy treated patients less than 15 years of age with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Mononuclear cells taken from peripheral blood or bone marrow. Results identify expression patterns associated with complete remission and relapse with resistant disease.
GDS1051 Analysis of normal theca cells treated with 500 uM valproic acid (VPA), an anti-epilipetic that induces polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)-like symptoms. Theca cells from PCOS patients also examined. Results provide insight into the underlying mechanisms contributing to VPA-induced PCOS-like symptoms.
GDS1050 Analysis of normal theca cells treated with 500 uM valproic acid (VPA), an anti-epilipetic that induces polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)-like symptoms. Theca cells from PCOS patients also examined. Results provide insight into the underlying mechanisms contributing to VPA-induced PCOS-like symptoms.
GDS177 Human foreskin fibroblasts (HFF) infected with cytomegalovirus strains fhCMV-H (rapid spread in vitro) and fhCMV-T (slow spread in vitro). UV-inactivated viruses also examined to control for response to coat glycoprotein B and active viral infection.
GDS940 Primary human dermal endothelial cells (HDMEC) were infected with isolated Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) for 7 days. Infection of HDVECs with KSHV results in upregulation of lymphatic lineage-specific genes and downregulation of blood vascular genes.
GDS557 Analysis of adult monkey whole medial and lateral rectus extraocular muscle (EOM), and microdissected medial rectus global and orbital EOM layers.
GDS556 Analysis of adult monkey whole medial and lateral rectus extraocular muscle (EOM), and microdissected medial rectus global and orbital EOM layers.
GDS172 Analysis of SIV MAC 251 disease progression in Rhesus Macaque peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). Slow, typical and fast progression groups examined at baseline, 3 and 7 weeks post-infection.
GDS171 Gene expression profile of proliferating normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) infected with HIV type 1 RF. Assessed at 0, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours postinfection and compared with those of matched uninfected PBMC.    
GDS170 Analysis of tumor suppressor protein p53 gene dosage effects in HCT116 colorectal carcinoma-derived cell lines p53 -/-, +/- and +/+ at 0 and 12 hours. Cells with different numbers of functional TP53 alleles can be distinguished by gene expression profile.
GDS1993 Analysis of colon carcinoma Caco-2 cells cultured for various lengths of time up to 3 weeks in flasks or on filters. An array focusing on transporters and ion channels was used. Results provide insight into the influence of cell differentiation on the mRNA expression of transporters and channels.
GDS942 Expression profiling of primary myoblast cell line KM109 obtained from muscle biopsy of a healthy individual and induced to differentiate by serum deprivation.  Cells examined at various time points up to 14 days following serum deprivation.  Results provide insight into late myogenesis.
GDS1065 Analysis of muscle from 12 patients with various forms of mitochondrial encephalomyopathies associated with mitochondrial DNA mutations: 8 patients with a A3243G mutation, and 4 patients with a 4977 base pair deletion. Results identify possible expression signature for mitochondrial disorders.
GDS943 Expression profiling of primary myoblast cell line KM109 obtained from muscle biopsy of a healthy individual and induced to differentiate by serum deprivation. Cells examined at various time points up to 14 days following serum deprivation. Results provide insight into late myogenesis.
GDS944 Expression profiling of primary myoblast cell line KM109 obtained from muscle biopsy of a healthy individual and induced to differentiate by serum deprivation. Cells examined at various time points up to 14 days following serum deprivation. Results provide insight into late myogenesis.
GDS1067 Expression profiling of plasma cells from patients with plasma cell dyscrasias: 7 with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance, 39 with multiple myeloma (MM), and 6 with plasma cell leukemia.  Results provide insight into the neoplastic transformation of plasma cells in MM. 
GDS945 Expression profiling of primary myoblast cell line KM109 obtained from muscle biopsy of a healthy individual and induced to differentiate by serum deprivation. Cells examined at various time points up to 14 days following serum deprivation. Results provide insight into late myogenesis.
GDS1062 Expression profiling of 18 primary squamous cell carcinomas of the oral cavity with or without lymph node metastasis. Expression in lymph node metastasis also examined. Results used to identify gene expression signature in primary tumors that indicates the presence of lymph node metastasis.   
GDS1064 Expression profiling of bone marrow from 43 patients with various forms of acute myeloid leukemia (AML): 10 promyelocytic leukemias with t(15;17), 4 AMLs with inv(16), 7 monocytic leukemias, and 22 nonmonocytic leukemias.  Results identify expression signatures unique to each AML subclass.
GDS1791 Expression profiling of Wilms' tumor tissue after pre-operative chemotherapy. Stratagene Universal Reference RNA also examined. Results are part of a cross-platform evaluation and compared to data generated from Serial Analysis of Gene Expression.
GDS1792 Analysis of gastric tubular adenoma and carcinoma cells microdissected from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded sections of gastric biopsies. Early lesions are small and detectable only with a microscope. Results indicate that routinely processed biopsy specimens may be useful in expression profiling.
GDS160 Analysis of gene expression in pooled vastus lateralis muscle samples from insulin-sensitive and insulin-resistant equally obese, non-diabetic Pima Indians. A search for susceptibility genes for type 2 diabetes.
GDS162 Analysis of gene expression in pooled vastus lateralis muscle samples from insulin-sensitive and insulin-resistant equally obese, non-diabetic Pima Indians. A search for susceptibility genes for type 2 diabetes.
GDS161 Analysis of gene expression in pooled vastus lateralis muscle samples from insulin-sensitive and insulin-resistant equally obese, non-diabetic Pima Indians. A search for susceptibility genes for type 2 diabetes.
GDS88 Analysis of cell lines used in the National Cancer Institute's screen for anti-cancer drugs. Gene expression is linked to phenotypic properties and drug sensitivity profiles of the cell lines.
GDS86 Analysis of a temporal transcriptional program in the response of primary fibroblast cultures to serum. Samples taken at 15 minutes and 2 hours.
GDS85 Temporal transcriptional program of primary fibroblasts in response to serum. Samples taken at various time points up to 24 hours.
GDS1989 Analysis of tissue specimens representing benign nevus, atypical nevus, melanoma in situ, vertical growth phase (VGP) melanoma, and metastatic growth phase (MGP) melanoma. Results identify expression signatures that distinguish benign and atypical nevi and melanomas in situ from VGPs and MGPs.
GDS1074 Analysis of CD34+ hematopoietic cells expressing the AML1-ETO fusion protein which is formed in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) from translocation t(8;21). CD34+ cells isolated from peripheral blood progenitor and cord blood cells. Results provide insight into the role of AML1-ETO in leukemogenesis.
GDS3501 Analysis of synchronous and metachronous liver metastatic lesions from colorectal cancer (CC). The liver is a common site of metastases from CC. Synchronous metastatic lesions arise less than 6 months after the resection of the primary tumor, metachronous lesions arise 6 months after resection.
GDS1078 Expression profiling of SKMEL-2 melanoma cells overexpressing the transcription factor E2F-1. E2F-1 overexpression induces apoptosis in many tumor cells. Results provide insight into the mechanisms underlying E2F-1 induced apoptosis in melanoma cells.
GDS3500 Analysis of cultured intestinal epithelial cells infected with Cryptosporidium hominis or parvum. Cryptosporidium parasites are pathogens of human intestinal epithelial cells. Results provide insight into the early pathogenesis of Cryptosporidium infection.
GDS962 Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were isolated from blood samples taken from healthy male subjects before, immediately after, and 60 minutes after 30 minutes of exercise. Brisk activation and deactivation of genes associated with stress, inflammation, and tissue repair observed.
GDS961 Comparison of glomeruli from kidneys with diabetic nephropathy (DN) and glomeruli from kidneys of healthy individuals. Progression of DN may be due to diminished tissue repair capability.
GDS158 Analysis of gene expression in pooled vastus lateralis muscle samples from insulin-sensitive and insulin-resistant equally obese, non-diabetic Pima Indians. A search for susceptibility genes for type 2 diabetes.
GDS157 Analysis of gene expression in pooled vastus lateralis muscle samples from insulin-sensitive and insulin-resistant equally obese, non-diabetic Pima Indians. A search for susceptibility genes for type 2 diabetes.    
GDS3704 Analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells of individuals before and 6 hours after the consumption of shakes containing either mainly polyunsanturated (PUFA) or saturated fatty acids (SFA). Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the beneficial effect of PUFA on health.
GDS156 Comparison of gene expression in vastus lateralis skeletal muscle biopsies in healthy young (21-31 year old) and older (62-77 year old) men. Sample RNAs isolated from individuals and pooled into groups of 8.
GDS3705 Comparison of lungs from patients with nodular self-limiting pulmonary sarcoidosis (PS) to those with progressive fibrotic PS. About 60-70% of patients with PS have disease that resolves spontaneously, the rest follow a chronic course. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of progressive PS.
GDS1783 Analysis of cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells after activation of voltage-dependent (VDCCs) or store-operated calcium channels (SOCCs). VDCCs activated by K+ depolarization and SOCCs by thapsigargin. Results provide insight into the effect of different calcium signals on gene expression.
GDS1780 Comparison of polysomal RNA from isogenic cell lines established from a colorectal cancer (CRC) patient. SW480 and SW620 cells derived from the primary tumor and a lymph node metastasis, respectively. The cell lines constitute a cellular model of CRC transition from invasive carcinoma to metastasis.
GDS80 Identification of host pathways affected by the Salmonella virulence transcription factor phoP. phoP found to play a role in Salmonella-induced human macrophage cell death.
GDS1979 Analysis of neural cells induced to express amyloid precursor protein (APP) intracellular domain (AICD) or the combination of AICD and its co-activator Fe65. Secretase processing of APP produces beta-amyloid, the main constituent of Alzheimer plaques, and AICD. Results identify target genes of AICD.
GDS536 Examination of antagonist to agonist conversion in androgen receptor-expressing hormone-sensitive LNCaP prostate cancer cells. Cells challenged with increasing doses of R1881, or bicalutamide.
GDS535 Analysis of mechanisms of prostate cancer resistance to antiandrogen therapy. Isogenic hormone-sensitive and drug-resistant hormone-refractory xenograft pairs examined.
GDS534 Analysis of cigarette smoking-induced changes in  bronchial epithelia, and reversibility of effects when smoking is discontinued. May provide insight to molecular events leading to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and lung cancer.
GDS1972 Analysis of uterine myometrial tissue specimens stored in RNAlater preservative for 24 or 74 hours at room temperature. Results indicate RNALater did not contribute any systematic shift in quantitative RNA expression results relative to alternative tissue processing methods (fresh, snap-frozen).
GDS552 Malignant bone marrow CD34+ thrombopoietin-treated megakaryocytes from essential thrombocythemia (ET) patients compared with normal megakaryocytes.
GDS1974 Analysis of keratinocyte HaCaT cells at 24 and 72 hours following induction of GLI1 or a constitutively active form of GLI2 from a tetracycline inducible promoter. GLI transcription factors mediate the hedgehog signal in development and carcinogenesis. 
GDS1973 Analysis of basal, luminal secretory, stromal fibromuscular, and endothelial cells of the prostate. Cell types separated with magnetic cell sorting (MACS) based on cell-type specific cluster designation (CD) antigens. Results identify gene expression signatures at the level of individual cell types.
GDS1976 Analysis of grades III and IV gliomas of various histologic types. Results used to develop a gene-expression based, histology independent-classification scheme, and provide insight into the biology of gliomas.
GDS1975 Analysis of grades III and IV gliomas of various histologic types. Results used to develop a gene-expression based, histology independent-classification scheme, and provide insight into the biology of gliomas.
GDS968 Analysis of UV and IR irradiated lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from the peripheral blood of patients with acute radiation toxicity.  Samples taken 2 months after the completion of radiation therapy.  Results provide insight into the role of the response to DNA damage in radiation toxicity.
GDS969 Analysis of impact of pre-analytical handling of bone marrow (BM). Time delays of 0, 24, or 48 hours between sample aspiration and RNA extraction examined. Storage of BM has dramatic effects on mRNA expression of individual transcripts.
GDS1085 Expression profiling of 115 samples from 35 different types of normal tissues. Samples obtained by surgery or autopsy, and evaluated by pathologists. Results provide insight into the molecular organization of diverse cell types, and provide a baseline for comparison to diseased tissues.
GDS1088 Expression profiling of 115 samples from 35 different types of normal tissues. Samples obtained by surgery or autopsy, and evaluated by pathologists. Results provide insight into the molecular organization of diverse cell types, and provide a baseline for comparison to diseased tissues.
GDS145 Analysis of the transcriptional program in the response of human fibroblasts to serum. Serum added to fibroblasts in the presence of cycloheximide and samples taken at 0, 0.5, 2 and 4 hours.
GDS1772 Analysis of cell lines lacking VHL or p53 following exposure to hypoxia. VHL is the gene responsible for degrading transcription factor HIF-1. p53 null mutants examined to identify genes whose expression under hypoxia depends on p53. Results identify genes regulated by HIF-1.
GDS1774 Analysis of peripheral blood cells from chronic hepatitis patients following oral administration of Agaricus blazei Murill (AbM) extract 3 times daily for 1 week. AbM extracts are used as a non-prescription remedy for cancer and infections, including hepatitis. 
GDS1779 Analysis of purified primary astrocytes exposed to hypoxia for 24 hours. Gene expression in HeLa cells also examined. Astrocytes play critical roles in the proper functioning of the brain. Results provide insight into the molecular events underlying the astrocytic responses to hypoxia. 
GDS3717 Analysis of HPB-ALL and KOPT-K1 cells treated with SAHM1, an antagonist of the NOTCH transcription factor. SAHM1 is an alpha-helical hydrocarbon stapled peptide derived from MAML1. Results provide insight into the specificity of the antagonistic effect of SAHM1 on gene expression driven by NOTCH.
GDS1096 Expression profiling of 36 types of normal tissue. Each RNA tissue sample pooled from several donors.  Results identify tissue specific genes and provide baselines for interpreting gene expression in cancer.
GDS3071 Analysis of keloid fibroblasts (FBs) treated with 1.5uM hydrocortisone (HC). Keloids are benign dermal tumors that form during protracted wound healing. HC at 1.5uM inhibits collagen and elastin synthesis in normal scar FBs but not in keloid FBs. Results provide insight into keloid pathogenesis.
GDS1094 Expression profiling of U2OS osteosarcoma cell line expressing estrogen receptor/alpha heterodimer after treatment with 10 nM 17beta-estradiol (E2) or 10 nM 4-OH tamoxifen (4HT) for 24 hours. Results provide insight into the role of estrogen receptor/alpha heterodimer in gene regulation.
GDS1095 Expression profiling of Lin-CD34-, Lin-CD34+, and Lin+CD34+ peripheral blood hematopoeitic stem cells (HSCs). Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the association of CD34 expression with self-renewal and lineage commitment in HSCs.
GDS3073 Analysis of neutrophils from healthy males before and after 30 minutes of aerobic exercise. The number of circulating neutrophils increases after exercise. Results provide insight into the molecular response of these immune cells to exercise.
GDS1768 Expression profiling of AG01518 foreskin fibroblasts at various time points up to 24 hours following stimulation with 10 ng/ml platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). PDGF is a potent mitogen for fibroblasts and other cells of mesenchymal origin. Results identify genes regulated by PDGF.
GDS513 Comparison of subcutaneous adipose tissue from individuals with familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCHL) exhibiting either upstream transcription factor 1 (USF1) susceptibility or protective haplotype. USF1 regulates glucose and lipid metabolism genes.
GDS1761 Analysis of 60 cell lines (the NCI60) derived from tumors from a variety of tissues and organs. Such cell lines are used extensively as experimental models of neoplastic disease. Results identify variation in gene expression patterns in the cell lines and their relationships to tumors in vivo.
GDS1760 Analysis of normal fibroblasts and endothelial cells, at various population doubling levels (PDLs), following human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) transfection. hTERT mediates cellular immortalization. Results identify cell-type specific transcriptional responses during immortalization.
GDS3709 Analysis of oral mucosae from 40 cigarette smokers and 40 age and gender matched never-smokers. Results provide insight into the carcinogenic effects of cigarette smoke.
GDS3706 Analysis of normal lung WI-38 fibroblasts exposed to various concentrations of the carcinogen benzo[a]pyrene diol epoxide (BPDE). BPDE is a metabolite of benzo[a]pyrene, a component of cigarette smoke. Results provide insight into the molecular response of normal lung fibroblasts to BPDE.
GDS901 Analysis of breast cancer cell line 231/ERalpha expressing L540Q mutant estrogen receptor after 1 or 2 hour estradiol treatment. Mutant receptor is defective in binding steroid receptor coactivator (SRC) proteins. Results identify estrogen-regulated genes that require SRCs for expression.
GDS3082 Analysis of cultured nasal epithelia prepared from healthy and allergic individuals following exposure to house dust mite (HDM) extract in vitro. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the allergic response of the nasal epithelia to allergens.
GDS906 Expression profiling of cultured bladder smooth muscle cells subjected to repetitive mechanical stimulation for 4 hours.  Chronic overdistension results in bladder wall thickening, associated with loss of muscle contractility. Results identify genes whose expression is altered by mechanical stimuli.
GDS531 Comparison of gene expression in bone marrow plasma cells of multiple myeloma patients with and without bone lesions. Osteolytic lesions increase in multiple myeloma patients.
GDS909 Detection of tissue-specific regulation of alternative splicing for 316 genes in five normal tissues (brain, muscle, liver, bone marrow, testes) using array containing oligonucleotides spanning individual exons and splice junctions.
GDS77 Identification of host pathways affected by the Salmonella virulence transcription factor phoP. phoP found to play a role in Salmonella-induced human macrophage cell death.
GDS78 Identification of host pathways affected by the Salmonella virulence transcription factor phoP. phoP found to play a role in Salmonella-induced human macrophage cell death.
GDS532 Temporal analysis of how astrocytes in the optic nerve head (ONH) respond to changes in intraocular pressure (IOP). ONH astrocytes exposed to 60 mm Hg hydrostatic pressure for 6, 24, and 48 hours. Lends understanding to pathogenesis of glaucoma. 
GDS707 Analysis of gene expression profiles obtained from the postmortem frontal cortex of 18 normal males and 12 normal females at 26 to 106 years of age.  Results provide insight into molecular events underlying the onset of brain aging.  
GDS708 Correlation of HIV integration sites to gene activity in SupT1 (T cell), PBMC (peripheral blood mononuclear cell), and IMR90 (lung fibroblast) cell lines infected with an HIV-based vector.  Results provide insight into sites preferred in HIV integration.
GDS709 Enterocyte differentiation analyzed using colonic adenocarcinoma cell line Caco-2 BBe as a model.  Cells examined at 2, 8, and 15 days in culture: these are in the proliferating, postproliferative nondifferentiated, and differentiated stages respectively.
GDS1758 Expression profiling of primary pterygium tissue. Pterygium, a common ocular surface disorder, is a fibrovascular overgrowth from the conjunctiva onto the cornea. Results provide insight into pterygium pathogenesis.
GDS525 Molecular definition of extraocular muscle (EOM). Autopsy superior rectus EOM compared with biopsy limb quadriceps femoris muscle.
GDS1753 Analysis of umbilical vein endothelial cell line HUVEC at various time points up to 24 hours following treatment with 100 ng/ml or 1 ug/ml of colchicine. Colchicine is an alkaloid used to alleviate rheumatic complaints like gout and to prevent acute attacks of familial Mediterranean fever.
GDS3711 Analysis of airway epithelial cells (AEC) from children with asthma and healthy non-atopic controls. Epithelial cells from asthmatic children fail to heal a wound in vitro. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying dysregulated AEC repair.
GDS1750 Expression profiling of 4 mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) cell lines. MCL has the worst prognosis among B-cell lymphomas. Gene expression results combine with genomic profiling results to identify genes that are relevant to MCL pathogenesis and that could also represent possible therapeutic targets.
GDS3710 Analysis of A549 epithelial cells treated for up to 72 hours with TGF-beta to induce epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). EMT is a developmental process that facilitates the dispersion of cells. A similar process is reactivated in cancer cells as an early event during tumor metastasis.
GDS3085 Analysis of leukocytes from patients with gram-positive or gram negative sepsis. Results provide insight into the specificity of the host response to gram-positive and gram negative sepsis. 
GDS3716 Analysis of histological normal breast epithelia from both ER- and ER+ breast cancer patients and prophylactic mastectomy patients, and normal breast epithelia from reduction mammoplasty patients. Results provide insight into the mechanisms underlying breast cancer initiation and progression.
GDS3715 Analysis of vastus lateralis muscle biopsies from insulin-sensitive subjects, insulin-resistant subjects, and  diabetic patients, following insulin treatment. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of insulin action in skeletal muscle and the underlying defects causing insulin resistance.
GDS705 Analysis of mRNA abundance changes in Hela cells following knockdown of nonsense-mediated mRNA decay component RENT1 using RNAi.   Results identify transcripts potentially regulated by RENT1.    
GDS3089 Analysis of promyelocytic leukemia HL60 cells treated with tretinoin (all-trans retinoic acid; ATRA) or vehicle. ATRA induces terminal differentiation or growth arrest in HL60 cells. Results suggest a 90-gene expression signature for this cell culture model of hematopoietic differentiation.
GDS915 Analysis of skeletal muscle from overweight males with metabolic syndrome. Individuals subjected to chronic exercise training. Muscles examined prior to training, and after 1 and 14 days of recovery following 9 months training. Provides insight into effects of exercise intervention.
GDS3092 Analysis of ectopic endometrial tissues implanted in the peritoneal cavity of 11 subjects. The growth of endometrial tissue outside of the uterus is called endometriosis. Results provide insight into the molecular pathology of endometriosis.
GDS913 Analysis of peripheral blood lymphocytes exposed to ultraviolet (10 J/m^2) or ionizing radiation (5 Gy). Lymphocytes obtained from 15 healthy individuals from ages 21 to 36 years and immortalized with Epstein-Barr virus. Results provide insight into transcriptional response to DNA damage.
GDS911 Expression profiling of T98G cancer cells in growth-arrest induced by 3 days of either serum deprivation or contact inhibition. Results show that targets of the p130- E2F4 repressor complex are downregulated under the two growth-arrest conditions.  
GDS910 Detection of tissue-specific regulation of alternative splicing for 316 genes in five normal tissues (brain, muscle, liver, bone marrow, testes) using array containing oligonucleotides spanning individual exons and splice junctions.
GDS3091 Analysis of noncancerous hepatic tissues surrounding tumors from hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients with and without venous metastasis. Results provide insight into the role of the hepatic microenvironment in HCC metastasis.
GDS918 Analysis of Ewing family tumor (EFT) cell line A673 response to interleukin-2 (IL-2) transfection to assess possible undesirable effects (e.g. tumor stimulation) of in vitro manipulation. Results impact the potential use of IL-2 transfection as an in vivo immunotherapy for EFT patients.
GDS917 Comparison of RNA isolation from whole blood using the PAXgene system to that from leukocytes using the buffy coat procedure.  Blood of healthy subjects and trauma patients examined.  Results indicate that RNA isolated from whole blood produced more noise than that from leukocytes.
GDS916 Human embryonic kidney cells HEK293 transfected with the Ewing family tumor (EFT)-specific EWS-FLI1 fusion protein to investigate the histogenetic origin of EFTs. The observed EFT-specific gene expression profile supports the concept of a neural crest and endothelial origin of EFT stem cells.
GDS1746 Analysis of epithelial cell cultures from prostate tumor explants. Results identify an epithelial-restricted transcription profile that can be integrated with tumor grade and clinical information with the aim of discriminating indolent and aggressive prostate tumors that are histologically similar. 
GDS3097 Analysis of tumor epithelia from patients with inflammatory breast cancer (IBC) and invasive non-IBC. This is part of a study that also examines the expression profiles of stromata surrounding tumors. Results provide insight into the contribution of the tumor component to the pathogenesis of IBC.
GDS3096 Analysis of stromata surrounding tumors from patients with inflammatory breast cancer (IBC) and invasive non-IBC. This is part of a study that also examines the expression profiles of tumors. Results provide insight into the contribution of the tumor stroma component to the pathogenesis of IBC.
GDS711 Examination of peripheral blood and synovial fluid mononuclear cells in pauciarticular and polyarticular rheumatoid arthritis, and in juvenile spondyloarthropathy.  Results identify disease subtypes and provide insight into disease mechanisms.  
GDS731 Examination of gene expression in MonoMac6 macrophage and umbilical vein endothelial cells treated with 100 nM leukotriene LTD4 for 1 hour.  Results offer insight into autocrine action of LTD4 on macrophages and its paracrine action on endothelial cells. 
GDS1726 Analysis of brain frontal cortex of HIV-seropositive patients with HIV encephalitis (HIVE). HIVE affects >40% of AIDS patients, promoting neurodegeneration and cognitive impairment. Results suggest HIV-mediated dysregulation of genes involved in neuronal maintenance might play an important role.
GDS53 Comparison of gene expression in CD34+ cells from bone marrow and G-CSF-mobilized peripheral blood to investigate why the latter are optimal for allogeneic transplant recipients.
GDS511 Transcriptional profile of normal skeletal muscle collected at autopsy compared to surgical specimens.
GDS1730 Analysis of U87 glioblastoma (GBM) cell clones overexpressing a dominant-negative form of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) A subunit to inactive the PDGF autocrine signaling loop. The autocrine PDGF loop is a hallmark of GBM. Results identify genes regulated by oncogenic PDGF signaling.
GDS505 Investigation into mechanisms of renal clear cell carcinogenesis (RCC). Comparison of renal clear cell tumor tissue and adjacent normal tissue isolated from the same surgical samples.
GDS507 Investigation into mechanisms of renal clear cell carcinogenesis (RCC). Comparison of renal clear cell tumor tissue and adjacent normal tissue isolated from the same surgical samples.
GDS1736 Analysis of PC-3 prostate cancer cells incubated with arachidonic acid (AA).  AA is an omega-6 fatty acid shown to induce cancer cell proliferation. Results suggest AA plays an important role in stimulation of growth-related genes and proliferation via phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling.
GDS1735 Analysis of Vdelta1 (Vd1) and Vdelta2 (Vd2) gamma delta (gd) T cells following stimulation with a non-TCR mediated agonist, PMA/ionomycin. Vd1 and Vd2 cells differ in tissue tropism, TCR usage, and agonist response. Results provide insight into the functional differences between Vd1 and Vd2 cells.
GDS504 Analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear (PBMC) cells in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Altered gene expression patterns in PAH PBMCs may allow disease subgroup identification and prediction of treatment response.
GDS724 Analysis of kidney transplant rejection by expression profiling of kidney biopsies and peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients. Results identify expression profiles unique to rejection, dysfunction without rejection, and well-functioning transplants.
GDS3383 Analysis of peripheral blood monocytes from individuals experiencing chronic stress due to being caregivers of family members with malignant brain cancer. Chronic stressors increase vulnerability to medical illness. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon.
GDS3578 Analysis of multiple myeloma MM1.S cells depleted for beta-catenin. Beta-catenin is an effector of the Wnt signaling pathway. Results provide insight into the role of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in the progression of multiple myeloma.
GDS892 Examination of 293T epithelial kidney cells stably transfected with either wild type GATA3 or R367L mutant GATA3. GATA3 can be highly expressed in breast tumors. GATA3 variants may contribute to tumorigenesis.
GDS3384 Analysis of colorectal adenocarcinomas resected from patients treated with celecoxib for 7 days. Celecoxib is a cycooxygenase-2 inibitor that exhibits anti-cancer activity. Results provide insight into the mechanism of action of celecoxib in vivo.
GDS3181 Analysis of skeletal muscles from normal, healthy glucose-tolerant individuals exposed to acute physiological hyperinsulinemia for up to 4 hours. Results suggest a low-grade inflammatory response which may provide insight into the etiology of insulin resistance in type 2 diabetes and obesity.
GDS893 Examination of 293T epithelial kidney cells stably transfected with either wild type GATA3 or R367L mutant GATA3. GATA3 can be highly expressed in breast tumors. GATA3 variants may contribute to tumorigenesis.
GDS894 Analysis of effects of resistance exercise (RE) and time of day in skeletal muscle. Biopsies of male vastus lateralis muscle obtained 6 and 18 hours after acute RE, or no RE. Results suggest that RE may directly modulate circadian rhythms in skeletal muscle.
GDS3388 Analysis of random periareolar fine-needle aspirates collected from unafflicted, contralateral breast tissue of breast cancer patients and treated with bisphenol A (BPA). BPA is a prevalent xenoestrogen. Results provide insight into early molecular events induced by BPA in susceptible breast tissue.
GDS3570 Analysis of umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) treated with VEGF-A for up to 6 hours in vitro.  VEGF-A is a major trigger of vasculogenesis and physiologic angiogenesis. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the vasculogenic and angiogenic activity of VEGF-A.
GDS3571 Analysis of endometrial stromal cells engineered to have an increased expression of Jag1. Jag1 is a Notch ligand. Results provide insight into the role of Notch signaling in endometrial cells.
GDS12 Examination of two functionally distinct human bone marrow stromal cell lines, HS-27a and HS-5. Four independent RNA samples from each cell line analyzed.
GDS3573 Analysis of monocyte-derived dendritic cells infected with Chlamydia pneumonia. C. pneumonia is a human respiratory pathogen associated with various chronic diseases such as asthma and atherosclerosis. Results provide insight into the host defense response to C. pneumonia infections.
GDS3576 Analysis of fibroblasts from patients with Diamond-Blackfan anaemia (DBA). DBA is a rare inherited red cell hypoplasia characterized by a defect in the maturation of erythroid progenitors. Results provide insight into the involvement of non-hematopoietic tissues in DBA pathogenesis.
GDS3175 Analysis of monocytes treated with an NF-kappaB or a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor and then infected with the human cytomegalovirus (HCMV). Results provide insight into the role of NF-kappaB and PI3K in the activation of monocytes to a proinflammatory state after an HCMV infection.
GDS3177 Analysis of umbilical vein endothelial cells grown to sub-confluency or confluency. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying endothelial barrier formation. 
GDS881 Analysis of gene stimulation and inhibition by the selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) trans-hydroxytamoxifen (TOT) and raloxifene (Ral) or ICI 182,780 (ICI) and by estradiol (E2) in estrogen receptor-containing MCF-7 breast cancer cells. Cells were treated for 8 or 48 hours.
GDS884 Expression profiling of U2OS osteosarcoma cells after treatment with 17beta-estradiol (E2) for various lengths of time up to 48 hours.  U2OS transfected with either estrogen receptor (ER) alpha or beta.  Results identify signaling pathways in bone regulated by E2 through ERalpha and ERbeta.
GDS885 HeLa tumor cells treated with 10 uM topoisomerase poison camptothecin (CPT) for 8 hours. This dose and time are sufficient to induce rapid apoptosis. Results identify potential targets for adjuvant cancer therapy.
GDS3581 Analysis of HeLa cells treated for up to 12 hrs with MT7, an anti-mitotic compound from a combinatorial library. MT7 inhibits cell proliferation by arresting mitosis specifically and reversibly in various tumor cell lines of human origin. Results provide insight into the mechanism of action of MT7.
GDS3580 Analysis of lungs from patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis (PS). PS is characterized by the granulomatous inflammation of the lung. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of PS.
GDS609 Search for modifying factors and pathogenic pathways involved in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Quadricep skeletal muscle biopsies from DMD patients and unaffected control patients examined.
GDS3559 Analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from shoe factory workers exposed to benzene. Benzene is a leukemogen. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms of benzene carcinogenicity.
GDS3367 Temporal analysis of MCF7 breast adenocarcinoma cells treated with argyrin A, a proteasome inhibitor that induces apoptosis by stabilizing cyclin kinase inhibitor p27kip1. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms that make argyrin A-induced cell death dependent upon p27kip1 expression.
GDS3160 Analysis of HT29 derived colon cancer cells resistant to the anticancer drug methotrexate (MTX). Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms contributing to MTX resistance.
GDS3556 Analysis of H295 adrenal carcinoma cells treated with torcetrapib, an anti-cholesterol drug. Adverse side effects of torcetrapib treatment include changes in blood pressure, potassium, sodium, and aldosterone. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the off-target side effects.
GDS3360 Analysis of the HL epithelial cell line at various time points up to 72 hours following Chlamydia pneumoniae infection. C. pneumonia is a common cause of respiratory infections such as pneumonia. Results provide insight into host-cell phenomena that are affected at the different stages of infection.
GDS3555 Comparison of monocytes and macrophages. Samples obtained from patients with acute coronary syndrome. Results compared to the performance of Affymetrix arrays (GDS3554).  The result from two-color arrays (GDS3553) was used as a reference for the Illumina and Affymetrix arrays.
GDS3558 Analysis of leukemia K562 cells treated with 10 or 50 uM deferasirox. Deferasirox is an iron chelator taken orally to treat iron toxicity. Iron depletion by deferasirox inhibits cancer cell proliferation in vitro. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of this anti-proliferative effect.
GDS3557 Analysis of endothelial HUVEC cells depleted for the ETS-related gene (ERG) product.  ERG is a member of the ETS family of transcription factors. Results provide insight into the role of ERG in the regulation of normal endothelial cell function.
GDS610 Search for modifying factors and pathogenic pathways involved in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Quadricep skeletal muscle biopsies from DMD patients and unaffected control patients examined.
GDS3554 Comparison of monocytes and macrophages. Samples obtained from patients with acute coronary syndrome. Results compared to the performance of Illumina arrays (GDS3555).  The result from two-color arrays (GDS3553) was used as a reference for the Illumina and Affymetrix arrays.
GDS3553 Comparison of monocytes and macrophages. Samples obtained from 86 patients with acute coronary syndrome. Results used as a reference to compare the performance of Affymetrix (GDS3554) and Illumina (GDS3555) arrays.
GDS858 Comparison of lung epithelial Calu-3 cells infected with the mucoid alginate-producing FRD1 strain to those infected with the isogenic motile flagellin-producing FRD440 strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Mucoid and motile strains are associated with chronic and acute lung infections, respectively.
GDS3158 Analysis of chondrocytes treated with a supernatant from SV40 T-antigen immortalized human synovial fibroblasts derived from a patient with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Results provide insight into the molecular mechanism underlying RA-related cartilage destruction.
GDS3155 Analysis of 16 prostatic cancer cell lines treated with anti-tumor agent dasatinib. The cell lines display sensitivity or resistance to dasatinib.  Results used to define a gene expression profile associated with sensitivity to dasatinib.
GDS854 Analysis of M091 acute myelogenous leukemia cells after treatment with 200 pM transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) for 2 and 4 hours. Part of a study comparing M091 to hematopoietic stem cells. Reveals cytostatic role of TGFbeta in hematopoiesis and identifies p57 as a possible tumor suppressor
GDS855 Analysis of CB-CD34 CD34+ hematopoietic stem cells after treatment with 200 pM TGFbeta for 2 and 4 hours. Part of a study comparing CB-CD34 cells to acute myelogenous leukemia cells. Reveals cytostatic role of TGFbeta in hematopoiesis and identifies p57 as a possible tumor suppressor.
GDS860 Cultured primary lung fibroblasts incubated 4 hours in the presence or absence of 100 nM endothelin-1 (ET-1). Results suggest that ET-1 is involved in matrix synthesis and connective tissue deposition during wound repair and in pulmonary fibrosis.
GDS3356 Analysis of umbilical cord tissues from extremely low gestational age newborns, between 23 to 27 weeks gestational age, some of who subsequently developed the chronic lung disorder bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD).  Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying BPD pathogenesis.
GDS3568 Analysis of umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) treated with VEGF-A or EGF for up to 6 hours. VEGF-A is a major trigger of vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. EGF is a general growth factor. Results provide insight into the mechanisms underlying the vasculogenic and angiogenic activity of VEGF-A.
GDS3567 Analysis of umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) treated with VEGF-A for up to 150 minutes in vitro.  VEGF-A is a major trigger of vasculogenesis and physiologic angiogenesis. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the vasculogenic and angiogenic activity of VEGF-A.
GDS3561 Analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from shoe factory workers exposed to benzene. Benzene is a leukemogen. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms of benzene carcinogenicity.
GDS3560 Analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from shoe factory workers exposed to benzene. Benzene is a leukemogen. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms of benzene carcinogenicity.
GDS3141 Analysis of colorectal mucosae from various regions of the normal large intestine. Results provide insight into the range of variation of gene expression in normal tissues.
GDS2010 Analysis of umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) following siRNA knockdown of Wilms' tumor 1-associating protein, WTAP. WTAP interacts with Wilms' tumor 1 (WT1). The Wilms' tumor suppressor gene WT1 is important in the development of the genitourinary system.
GDS3147 Analysis of B-cell lines representing myeloma and Burkitt's lymphoma and exhibiting varied GL7 epitope expression. GL7high B-cells have higher functional activity for producing antibodies and presenting antigens. Results identify a candidate gene responsible for the biosynthesis of the GL7 epitope.
GDS2018 Analysis of HEK293T embryonic kidney cells subjected to hypoxia or overexpressing hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1, degradation resistant HIF-1, or HIF-2. Results provide insight into the respective roles of HIF-1 and HIF-2 in the cellular response to hypoxia.
GDS183 Identification of clinically relevant subclasses of bladder carcinoma. Three major stages identified, Ta, T1 and T2-4. Ta tumors further classified into subgroups. A 32-gene molecular classifier was built.   
GDS2902 Analysis of lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs) subjected to hypoxia or treated with conditioned media from lung carcinoma cells grown under hypoxic conditions. LECs contribute to tumor metastasis. 
GDS181 Gene expression profiles from a diverse array of tissues, organs, and cell lines, from the normal physiological state. Represents a preliminary description of the normal mammalian transcriptome.    
GDS2287 Analysis of airway epithelial cells infected with Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 or the rsmA mutant. RsmA is a small RNA-binding protein that plays a role in the regulation of virulence-related genes in P. aeruginosa. Results provide insight into the influence of RsmA-regulated functions on the host.
GDS3531 Analysis of U2OS cells partially depleted for the PGC-1-related coactivator PRC. Loss of PRC results in a severe reduction in respiratory energy production, the proliferation of structurally defective mitochondria, and a defect in cell cycle progression.
GDS3532 Analysis of U2OS cells nearly completely depleted for the PGC-1-related coactivator PRC. Loss of PRC results in a severe reduction in respiratory energy production, the proliferation of structurally defective mitochondria, and a defect in cell cycle progression.
GDS3534 Analysis of lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs) depleted for Prox1, NR2F2, or both regulators. LECs are derived from venous endothelial cells (VECs). Prox1 and NR2F2 regulate LEC and VEC development, respectively. Results provide insight into the role of NR2F2 and Prox1 in maintaining LEC phenotypes.
GDS3537 Analysis of H295R adrenocortical carcinoma cells treated with the hydroxylated polybrominated biphenyl ether (PBDE) 2-OH-BDE47 or 2-OH-BDE85. PBDEs are used as flame retardants in various products. The two PBDEs are cytotoxic. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of PBDE cytotoxicity.
GDS3539 Analysis of lesional and non-lesional skins from patients with psoriasis. Psoriasis is an immune-mediated disease characterized by aberrant epidermal differentiation, surface scale formation, and marked cutaneous inflammation. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of psoriasis.
GDS198 Molecular profiles of muscle tissue in patients with inflammatory myopathies.
GDS3139 Analysis of histologically normal breast epithelia of breast cancer patients. Results provide insight into the molecular abnormalities in normal appearing breast epithelium in breast cancer and the roles these abnormalities play in carcinogenesis.
GDS2295 Analysis of diffuse large B cell lymphoma SKI-DLCL cells treated with Aplidin, cytarabine (AraC), or both anticancer drugs. The effect of the drugs on animals with SKI-DLCL cell-derived tumors also examined. Results provide insight into the action of Aplidin alone and in combination with AraC.
GDS3138 Analysis of breast cancer LM2 cells transfected with a vector expressing microRNA miR-335. LM2 is metastatic to lung. miR-335 expression is lost as breast cancer cells develop metastatic potential. Restoring miR-335 expression inhibits metastatic cell invasion of lung cancer cells. 
GDS2007 Analysis of fibrosarcoma HT1080 cells following exposure to the cytostatic chemotherapeutic agents actinomycin D or vincristine for 24 hours, or doxorubicin for 6 and 24 hours. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the cell death in response to cytotoxic therapies.
GDS2297 Analysis of baseline non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell lines with a broad range of sensitivity to the anticancer drug gefitinib. Gefitinib is an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI). Results used to define a gene expression signature of gefitinib sensitivity.
GDS2008 Analysis of umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) at various time points up to 48 hours following transfection with a recombinant adenovirus expressing early growth response-1 (EGR1). EGR1 is implicated in cell growth, apoptosis, and differentiation. Results identify potential EGR1 target genes.
GDS2298 Analysis of baseline non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell lines with a broad range of sensitivity to the anticancer drug gefitinib. Gefitinib is an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI). Results used to define a gene expression signature of gefitinib sensitivity.
GDS2009 Analysis of umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) at various time points up to 48 hours following transfection with a recombinant adenovirus expressing early growth response-1 (EGR1). EGR1 is implicated in cell growth, apoptosis, and differentiation. Results identify potential EGR1 target genes.
GDS2908 Analysis of T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL) cells with the cytogenetic abnormality inv(14)(q11q32). T-PLL is a rare aggressive lymphoma derived from mature T cells. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of T-PLL.
GDS3124 Analysis of nu61 radioresistant tumors following exposure to ionizing radiation. Nu61 tumors derived from the radiosensitive squamous cell carcinoma cell line SCC61. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of acquired tumor radioresistance.
GDS2921 Analysis of U2OS osteosarcoma cells at various time points up to 12 hours following induction of a tetracycline-repressible Wilms' tumor 1 (WT1) gene encoding the -KTS isoform. WT1 encodes a zinc finger transcription factor that is involved in organ development.  
GDS2922 Analysis of aneurysmal tissue from ascending aortas of patients with normal tricuspid aortic valves or abnormal bicuspid aortic valves (BAVs). BAV is a congenital anomaly associated with an increased risk for ascending aortic aneurysm (AscAAs). Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of AscAA.
GDS3127 Analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from individuals exposed to diesel exhaust (DE), a major source of urban fine particulate matter (FPM). Exposure to ambient FPM is associated with cardiovascular disease. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying such health effects.
GDS2920 Analysis of skeletal muscles of HIV-infected males experiencing weight loss after treatment with testosterone. HIV-associated wasting and weight loss are clinically significant concerns. Results provide insight into androgen action and the potential of anabolic therapies for wasting and sarcopenia.
GDS3129 Analysis of medial and lateral substantia nigras (SNs) from post-mortem brain samples obtained from individuals with sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD). The SN exhibits extensive tissue damage in PD. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of PD.
GDS3128 Analysis of medial and lateral substantia nigras (SNs) from post-mortem brain samples obtained from individuals with sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD). The SN exhibits extensive tissue damage in PD. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of PD.
GDS2918 Analysis of blood plasma from patients with colorectal cancer. Results used to identify gene markers for colorectal cancer.
GDS3510 Analysis of lung adenocarcinoma CL1-5 cells overexpressing Claudin-1 (CLDN1), a component of tight junction complexes. Low CLDN1 expression in lung adenocarcinomas is associated with shorter overall survival. Results provide insight into the role of CLDN1 in the progression of lung adenocarcinoma.
GDS3516 Analysis of neoplastic lymphocytic and histiocytic cells (L&H) dissected from nodular lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin lymphoma tumors (NLPHL). L&H cells represent less than 1 percent of cells in NLPHL tumors. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of NLPHL.
GDS3517 Analysis of melanoma 224 and BL cells for up to 3 days after suppression of the mutant NRAS Q61R gene with siRNA siMut10 or siMut12. Activating mutations in NRAS gene is a common genetic event in malignant melanoma. Results provide insight into the role of NRAS in the pathogenesis of melanoma.
GDS3518 Analysis of Philadelphia chromosome-positive CD34+ cells of chronic myelogenous leukemia patients treated with imatinib. The anti-cancer drug imatinib is a selective bcr-abl tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Results provide insight into the molecular events affected by bcr-abl inhibition through imatinib.
GDS3511 Analysis of cultured macrophages for up to 7 days after HIV-1 infection. Macrophages are targets of HIV-1 infection and constitute a viral reservoir that facilitates the spread of HIV-1 to other cells. Results provide insight into the signaling networks affected by HIV-1 infection in macrophages. 
GDS3513 Analysis of cardiomyocytes (CMs) derived from embryonic stem cells (ESCs). Under the appropriate conditions, ex vivo ESCs can differentiate into beating cardiomyocytes via an embryoid body (EB) intermediate. Results provide insight into the mechanisms underlying the differentiation of ESC into CMs. 
GDS3514 Analysis of various types of liposarcomas treated with doxorubicin in vitro. While doxorubicin is an established chemotherapeutic for treating liposarcomas, the response to this drug is low. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the resistance of liposarcomas to doxorubicin.
GDS3113 Analysis of various normal tissues. Results provide insight into housekeeping and tissue-specific genes.
GDS3112 Analysis of aortic smooth muscle cells incubated for 16 hrs or 48 hrs under hypoxic conditions (1% or 3%O2). Smooth muscle cell proliferation and survival are modulated by hypoxia. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying oxygen regulation of arterial smooth muscle cells.
GDS3111 Analysis of LNCaP prostate cancer cells treated with the androgen dihydrotestosterone (DHT). DHT binds to androgen receptor (AR), a ligand dependent transcription factor that plays a key role in prostate cancer. Results provide insight into mechanisms underlying AR-dependent prostate cancer growth.
GDS3110 Analysis of hypothalamic hamartomas (HHs) from patients with or without central precious puberty (CPP). HHs are congenital lesions composed of neurons and astroglia often associated with CPP. Results provide insight into the mechanisms that initiate normal puberty.
GDS2932 Analysis of normal lung epithelial HPL1D cells and lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells treated with TGF-beta for up to 12 hours. TGF-beta inhibits growth and promotes apoptosis in normal epithelial cells but acts as a pro-tumor cytokine by promoting tumour angiogenesis, immune-escape, and metastasis.
GDS2933 Analysis of gingival epithelial HIGK cells co-cultured with the the oral commensal Streptococcus gordonii or the opportunistic commensal Fusobacterium nucleatum. Results provide insight into the mechanisms underlying the adaptation of hosts to commensals.
GDS2935 Analysis of skin biopsies from nickel-allergic patients whose skins were exposed to nickel, a sensitizing hapten, for up to 96 hours to elicit allergic contact dermatitis (ACD). Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of ACD.
GDS2930 Analysis of keratinocytes treated with cis-urocanic acid (UCA). UCA is an epidermal chromophore that undergoes trans to cis photoisomerization following ultraviolet radiation exposure. Results provide insight into the effect of cis-UCA on the cell-mediated immune response in the skin. 
GDS3116 Analysis of breast cancer tumors following treatment with letrozole for 14 days. The aromatase inhibitor letrozole is an anti-estrogen drug used to treat postmenopausal women with breast cancer. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanism of action of letrozole in breast cancer.
GDS2931 Comparison of synovial fibroblasts from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) to those with osteoarthritis (OA). RA is characterized by chronic inflammation and destruction of multiple joints. OA is a degenerative disease resulting from the breakdown of cartilage.
GDS2926 Temporal analysis of phorbol ester-treated CHRF-288-11 megakaryoblastic cells induced to undergo megakaryocytic (Mk) differentiation and primary Mk (PriMk) cells derived from cytokine-treated CD34+ peripheral blood cells. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying megakaryopoiesis.
GDS3399 Analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells treated with the recombinant staphylococcal superantigen (SAg) toxin SEI or SEB. SEI is located in the enterotoxin gene cluster (egc). Antibodies against non-egc SAgs are common in the healthy population, while those against egc SAgs are rare.
GDS3524 Analysis of cultured renal proximal tubule epithelial RPTEC cells subjected to hypoxia at 1% oxygen for 24 hours. Results identify hypoxia-controlled genes in epithelial cells.
GDS3525 Analysis of primary ovarian tumors from patients with high depressive symptoms. Results provide insight into the contribution of biobehavioral factors such as such as stress, depression, and social support to the molecular progression of cancer.
GDS3393 Analysis of bronchial epithelial cells treated with interleukin (IL)-22, IL-17, or both.  IL-17 receptor mutant lungs are susceptible to Klebsiella pneumonia infections. IL-22 induces antimicrobial peptide expression. Results provide insight into the extent of IL-22 and IL-17's role in host defense.
GDS3523 Comparison of non-migratory villous cytotrophoblasts (CTBs) and invasive extra-villous trophoblasts.  Invasion of CTBs into uterine tissues is essential for placental development. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms regulating trophoblast invasion.
GDS2444 Analysis of A549 lung carcinoma and M059K glioblastoma cells treated with dichloroacetate (DCA), an inhibitor of the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase. DCA shifts metabolism from glycolysis to glucose oxidation and decreases mitochondrial membrane potential in cancer cells.
GDS2445 Analysis of embryonic fibroblasts depleted of the polycomb group (PcG) proteins EZH2, EED, SUZ12, or BMI-1. PcG proteins form complexes that regulate the expression of homeotic genes during development. Results provide insight into the mechanisms employed by PcGs to control development.
GDS2446 Analysis of HCT116 colon cancer cells in which tumor suppressor gene PTEN had been deleted by gene targeting. Activation of PI3K signaling by PTEN mutations can lead to activation of p53-mediated cell growth suppression. Results provide insight into the role of PTEN in cancer pathogenesis.
GDS2447 Analysis of lymphoblast cell lines derived from six subjects with active nicotine dependence. Depression susceptibility, nicotine dependence, alcohol dependence, and cannabis dependence have correlated genetic and environmental diatheses. Results provide insight into complex behaviour disorders. 
GDS2448 Analysis of CD34+ erythroid progenitors stimulated with erythropoietin (Epo) with or without LY294002, a PI3K inhibitor. Epo promotes differentiation and proliferation of early progenitors via activation of PI3K. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of Epo.
GDS1388 Analysis of primary lymphocytes from B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients. Lymphocytes from patients with indolent B-CLL compared to those with progressive B-CLL. Results identify putative gene markers of B-CLL progression from a stable to an aggressive state.
GDS3300 Analysis of CA1 and CA2 embryonic stem cell (ESC) lines over-expressing transcription factor SOX7 or SOX17, producing extraembryonic endoderm and definitive endoderm progenitors, respectively. Results provide insight into the roles of SOX7 and SOX17 as regulators of endoderm differentiation in ESCs.
GDS2740 Analysis of skeletal muscles at various time points up to 24 hours after acute bouts of either lengthening (LCs) or shortening contractions (SCs). Resistance training using LCs results in greater increases in muscle size than SCs. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of this difference.
GDS1384 Analysis of transcriptional activity in MCF7 cells infected with control adenovirus versus adenovirus expressing c-Myb, oncogenic variant v-Myb, or a 3MutC hybrid construct. Results indicate that v-Myb is a distinct transcriptional regulator with a unique set of activities.
GDS2938 Analysis of thyroid epithelial cells (TECs) treated with IFN-gamma, IL-1beta, or both. Fas-mediated apoptosis plays a role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune thyroid diseases. TECs are resistant to Fas-mediated apoptosis, but the resistance is overcome by pretreatment with IFN-gamma and IL-1beta.
GDS2744 Analysis of MCF-7 breast cancer cells treated with 100 nM dioxin. Although dioxin is causative for many types of cancers, low exposure to dioxin is associated with a decreased incidence of breast carcinoma. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of this protective effect.
GDS2939 Analysis of thyroid epithelial cells (TECs) treated with IFN-gamma, IL-1beta, or both. Fas-mediated apoptosis plays a role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune thyroid diseases. TECs are resistant to Fas-mediated apoptosis, but the resistance is overcome by pretreatment with IFN-gamma and IL-1beta.
GDS1381 Comparison of carboplatin sensitive and resistant ovarian cancer cells. Carboplatin is a chemotherapy drug. Cancer cells prepared from primary cultures of ovarian papillary serous adenocarcinomas. Results identify potential markers for carboplatin responsiveness in ovarian carcinoma.
GDS2745 Analysis of MCF-7 breast cancer cells treated with 100 nM dioxin. Although dioxin is causative for many types of cancers, low exposure to dioxin is associated with a decreased incidence of breast carcinoma. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of this protective effect.
GDS3309 Analysis of nasal epithelia from cigarette smokers. Cigarette smoke creates a field of injury in epithelial cells lining the respiratory tract. Results extend the concept of a smoking-induced field of injury beyond intrathoracic (bronchial) epithelia to extrathoracic epithelia that line the nose.
GDS1380 Analysis of pseudopalisading cells obtained by laser capture microdissection from glioblastoma tumors. The presence of pseudopalisading cells is associated with aggressive malignant gliomas. Results identify putative prognostic markers for glioblastoma.
GDS3308 Analysis of mononuclear cells from bone marrow or peripheral blood from a training set of 163 adult patients with cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia (CN-AML). Patients with CN-AML show heterogeneous treatment outcomes. Results provide insight into a prognostic gene signature for CN-AML.
GDS2739 Analysis of epithelial cells isolated from hyperplastic enlarged lobular units (HELUs). HELUs arise from the enlargement of normal terminal duct lobular units by hyperplastic columnar epithelial cells and are the earliest histologically identifiable precursor of breast cancer.
GDS2940 Analysis of dendritic cells (DCs) at various time points up to 36 hours following treatment with TGF-beta1. DCs derived from CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells induced to differentiate in vitro. Results provide insight into the role of TGF-beta1 in DC development.
GDS2241 Comparison of BeWo and JEG3 trophoblast cell lines. Trophoblast cell lines are used as surrogates for primary trophoblast cells in the study of placental function. Results provide insight into the differences between the two cell lines.
GDS1584 Analysis of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) cells from 16 patients. OSCC cells isolated from tumors by laser capture microdissection. Results identify a strong correlation between gene expression profile and tumor invasiveness in OSCC.
GDS3104 Analysis of vastus lateralis muscles from women with insulin-resistant polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Insulin resistance in skeletal muscles is a risk factor for the development of type 2 diabetes in women with PCOS. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of insulin resistance in PCOS.
GDS2240 Analysis of HCT-8 ileocecal epithelial cells at various time points up to 72 hours after infection with Cryptosporidium parvum, an obligate intracellular protozoan that is a major cause of gastrointestinal diseases. Results provide insight into the interaction between the host cell and C. parvum.
GDS2941 Analysis of postmortem brains of individuals with Down syndrome. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of Down syndrome.
GDS3105 Analysis of MCF-7 breast cancer cells treated with a Cimicifuga racemosa extract. Extracts from the C. racemosa rhizome are used as an herbal alternative to hormone replacement therapy for alleviation of postmenopausal disorders. Results provide insight into the extract's molecular mode of action.
GDS2242 Analysis of bone marrow samples from 18 patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 (Flt3) is mutated in 35 to 40% of APL cases. Results provide insight into the role of Flt3 mutations in the pathogenesis of APL.
GDS2245 Analysis of uterine fibroids with mutations in the fumarate hydratase (FH) gene. FH  catalyzes the hydration of fumarate in the TCA cycle. Heterozygous germline mutations in FH cause uterine fibroids and renal cell cancer. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of TCA cycle-related tumors.
GDS1580 Expression profiling of 293T cells depleted for lens epithelium-derived growth factor (LEDGF/p75). LEDGF/p75 binds to HIV integrase. Results identify LEDGF/p75 regulated genes, which may be preferential targets of HIV integration.
GDS2244 Analysis of E2F-1 overexpressing SK-MEL-2 melanoma cells treated with the anti-cancer drug doxorubicin (dox). Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the synergistic effect on melanoma cell apoptosis observed when E2F-1 overexpression is combined with dox treatment
GDS2052 Analysis of the normal endometrium at distinct phases of the menstrual cycle. Results provide insight into whether molecular profiles of the endometrium can distinguish the different phases of the menstrual cycle.
GDS2246 Analysis of uterine fibroids with mutations in the fumarate hydratase (FH) gene. FH  catalyzes the hydration of fumarate in the TCA cycle. Heterozygous germline mutations in FH cause uterine fibroids and renal cell cancer. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of TCA cycle-related tumors.
GDS2054 Analysis of cells that constitutively express misfolded surfactant protein C, which induces chronic endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and cytotoxicity. Results provide evidence for an NF-kB-dependent adaptive response to the chronic ER stress imposed by the misfolded protein.
GDS2056 Analysis of tibialis anterior, deltoid, quadriceps, and gastrocnemius muscles obtained at autopsy from pediatric and geriatric subjects unaffected by neuromuscular disease. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the selective involvement of different muscles in muscular dystrophies.
GDS2055 Analysis of tibialis anterior, deltoid, quadriceps, and gastrocnemius muscles obtained at autopsy from pediatric and geriatric subjects unaffected by neuromuscular disease. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the selective involvement of different muscles in muscular dystrophies.
GDS2058 Analysis of LNCaP cells treated for 6 and 24 hours with RTI-018, an androgen receptor (AR) ligand with a mechanism of action different from that of canonical agonists. Results provide insight into the link between RTI-018 induced AR conformational changes and its ability to regulate gene expression.
GDS3100 Analysis of skeletal muscles of postmenopausal women treated with hormone replacement therapy (HRT) or with a placebo. Menopause is accompanied by age-associated changes in muscle structure and function. Results provide insight into the effect of HRT and estrogen deprivation on skeletal muscles. 
GDS2057 Analysis of LNCaP cells treated for 6 and 24 hours with RTI-018, an androgen receptor (AR) ligand with a mechanism of action different from that of canonical agonists. Results provide insight into the link between RTI-018 induced AR conformational changes and its ability to regulate gene expression.
GDS3101 Analysis of cisplatin-resistant A549 lung adenocarcinoma cell line treated with cisplatin, a chemotherapy drug. Its cytotoxic effects are likely due to the DNA damage it induces in cells. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying the response of A549 to cisplatin insult.
GDS1376 Analysis of platelets from patients with essential thrombocythemia (ET). ET is a myeloproliferative disorder resulting in an abnormal increase in the number of blood platelets. Results indicate that distinct expression patterns of 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases are associated with ET.
GDS1375 Expression profiling of primary malignant melanoma, benign skin nevi, and normal skin samples. Results identify potential molecular markers for lymph node staging assays, and provide insight into melanoma tumorigenesis. 
GDS2755 Analysis of HCT116 cells overexpressing miR-34, a microRNA. miR-34 is commonly deleted in human cancers. Results provide insight into the function of miR-34.
GDS2947 Analysis of colorectal adenomas and normal mucosas from 32 patients. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the formation of colorectal adenomas.
GDS2453 Analysis of dendritic cells (DCs) treated with the PPAR-gamma ligand rosiglitazone alone or with the RAR-alpha antagonist AGN193109. DCs treated with the RAR-alpha agonist AM580 also examined. Results provide insight into the contribution of retinoid signaling to the PPAR-gamma response.
GDS1372 Analysis of pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMC) from patients with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH). PASMC treated with 200 nM bone morphogenic protein 2 (BMP-2) for 24 hours. BMP signaling dysfunction has been implicated in IPAH.  
GDS2758 Analysis of MCF-7 breast cancer cells exposed to hypoxia or treated with the non-specific 2-oxoglutarate (2-OG) dependent dioxygenase inhibitor dimethyloxalylglycine. Results provide insight into the role of 2-OG dioxygenases in the regulation of gene expression during hypoxia.
GDS2759 Analysis of MCF-7 breast cancer cells exposed to hypoxia or treated with the non-specific 2-oxoglutarate (2-OG) dependent dioxygenase inhibitor dimethyloxalylglycine. Results provide insight into the role of 2-OG dioxygenases in the regulation of gene expression during hypoxia.
GDS2756 Analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from measles patients. PBMCs collected upon hospital admission, at discharge, and one month after discharge. Results provide insight into the immunological changes that occur during measles infections. 
GDS2251 Comparison of myeloid leukemia cells to normal monocytes. Transcriptional status of each gene compared to its CpG methylation state. The methylation of CpG islands is associated with transcriptional repression and, in cancer, leads to the abnormal silencing of tumor suppressor genes.
GDS2250 Analysis of sporadic basal-like cancer (BLC), BRCA-associated breast cancer, and non-BLC tumors. Sporadic BLC are phenotypically similar to BRCA1-associated cancers. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of BLC and BRCA1-associated breast cancer.
GDS2049 Analysis of hepatoma HepG2 cells 6 and 12 hours following transduction with a recombinant adenovirus expressing glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D (GPI-PLD). Results provide insight into the role of GPI-PLD in hepatic lipid metabolism.
GDS2048 Expression profiling of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from children with acute rotavirus diarrhea. Rotavirus is the most common cause of severe diarrhea in children.
GDS2255 Analysis of neutrophils that transmigrate to the alveolar space. Transmigration induced by bronchoscopic instillation of volunteers with endotoxin (LPS). Results identify differences between pulmonary and circulating neutrophils that occur early in endotoxin-induced lung inflammation.
GDS2954 Analysis of monocytes (MOs) and MO-derived dendritic cells (DCs) for up to 24 hours following Mycobacterium tuberculosis-derived lipopeptide treatment. Toll-like receptor activation by bacterial lipopeptides reduced the viability of M. tuberculosis in MOs and macrophages but not MO-derived DCs.
GDS2042 Analysis of intraepithelial cytotoxic T lymphocytes (IE-CTLs), aberrantly expressing the cytolytic natural killer (NK) cell lineage receptor NKG2C, from celiac disease patients. Results provide insight into the role of IE-CTLs reprogrammed into NK-like cells in the pathogenesis of celiac disease.
GDS1579 Analysis of leukocytes from 6 healthy subjects intravenously administered bacterial endotoxin. Leukocytes examined at various time points up to 6 hours post-infusion. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms involved in the propagation and resolution of the inflammatory response.
GDS2040 Analysis of microvascular endothelial cells stimulated to either proliferate or undergo tubulogenesis in vitro. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of endothelial cell morphogenesis. 
GDS2046 Analysis of preinvasive ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) tumors. Pairs of patient-matched DCIS and IDC tumor specimens analyzed. Results provide insight into the mechanisms underlying the progression of DCIS to IDC.
GDS2045 Analysis of preinvasive ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) tumors. Pairs of patient-matched DCIS and IDC tumor specimens analyzed. Results provide insight into the mechanisms underlying the progression of DCIS to IDC.
GDS2426 Analysis of HEK293 kidney cells overexpressing the hypertension-related calcium-regulated gene (HCaRG). HCaRG is involved in the control of renal cell proliferation and differentiation. Results provide insight into the role of HCaRG in kidney repair after injury.
GDS2760 Analysis of hypoxic MCF-7 breast cancer cells depleted for hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha, HIF-2alpha, or both HIF alpha subunits. Results provide insight into the extent of the role of HIF-1alpha and HIF-2alpha in the regulation of gene expression during hypoxia.
GDS2428 Analysis of short-term cultured glioblastoma cells treated with 5-aza-dC to induce DNA demethylation. Glioblastoma cells derived from 3 independent primary glioblastomas. Results provide insight into the role of epigenetic alterations in glioblastoma gene inactivation. 
GDS2761 Analysis of hypoxic MCF-7 breast cancer cells depleted for hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha, HIF-2alpha, or both HIF alpha subunits. Results provide insight into the extent of the role of HIF-1alpha and HIF-2alpha in the regulation of gene expression during hypoxia.
GDS2429 Analysis of monocytes (MCs) treated with M-CSF to induce differentiation into macrophages (MPs), and mature MPs treated with either IFN-gamma and LPS or IL-4 to induce polarization to M1 or M2 cells, respectively. Results provide insight into MC to MP differentiation and polarized activation.  
GDS2422 Analysis of embryonic fibroblasts starved of fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) for 2 days and subsequently restimulated with FGF2. FGF2 promotes the self-renewal of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) . Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying ESC self-renewal in response to FGF2. 
GDS2423 Analysis of embryonic fibroblast-like (EF) differentiated cells derived from H9 embryonic stem cells. Foreskin fibroblasts, and undifferentiated H9 and embryonic carcinoma cells also examined. Results provide insight into the differences between EF cells and fibroblasts at the molecular level.
GDS2767 Analysis of blood samples from 6 individuals at various time points up to 12 hours following the intake of water, ethanol, grape juice, or red wine. Results may contribute to elucidating the mechanisms underlying the cardioprotective effects of red wine.
GDS2763 Analysis of in vitro differentiated dendritic cells (DCs) from patients with PLOSL, an early onset dementia with bone cysts caused by mutations in DAP12 and TREM2 genes which encode important signaling molecules in DCs. Results provide further insight into mechanisms underlying PLOSL pathogenesis.
GDS2958 Analysis of A431, HCC827, and SKBR-3 carcinoma cell lines depleted for the tumor suppressor PTEN. Inactivation of PTEN is a common genetic lesion in cancer. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the oncogenic phenotypes resulting from PTEN deficiency.
GDS2959 Analysis of leukocytes from individuals before and after the administration of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). G-CSF is used to boost granulocyte counts in immunocompromised patients. Results provide insight into the effect of G-CSF on the immune system.
GDS2221 Analysis of monocyte-derived dendritic cells induced to mature with galectin-1, a member of the beta-galactoside-binding lectin family that binds to cell surface glyconjugates. Results provide insight into the role of galectin-1 in the immunobiology of dendritic cells.
GDS2966 Analysis of lung carcinoma A549 cells treated with resveratrol. Resveratrol is a phytoestrogen found in red wine. Results provide insight into protective effect of resveratrol against lung cancer.
GDS2038 Analysis of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) negative B-cell lines BL41K3 and BJABK3 following activation of EBV nuclear antigen 2 (EBNA-2). EBNA-2 fused to the hormone-binding domain of the estrogen receptor, and EBNA-2 activated upon estrogen binding. Results identify EBNA-2 target genes. 
GDS2039 Analysis of microvascular endothelial cells stimulated to either proliferate or undergo tubulogenesis in vitro. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of endothelial cell morphogenesis. 
GDS2963 Analysis of the vincristine-sensitive SKOV3 ovarian carcinoma cell line and its vincristine-resistant derivative. Vincristine is a chemotherapeutic agent used for the treatment of cancer. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the emergence of multidrug resistance. 
GDS2034 Expression profiling of prostate cancer cell line LNCaP treated for up to 8 hours with the synthetic androgen R1881. LNCaP cells grow slowly in medium devoid of steroids but resume growth upon the addition of androgens. The study aims to identify direct targets of the androgen receptor.
GDS2036 Expression profiling of cultured macrophages subjected to hypoxia for 24 hours. Macrophages were derived from the mononuclear cells of 4 healthy donors.  
GDS2960 Analysis of cultured skin fibroblasts prepared from patients with Marfan syndrome (MFS). MFS is a heritable connective tissue disorder caused by mutations in the fibrillin-1 gene. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of MFS.
GDS2035 Analysis of T cells costimulated with concanavalin A and anti-CD28 antibody in a vectorless gravity environment, which approximates true freefall or microgravity experienced in spaceflight. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the altered immune function experienced by astronauts.
GDS2419 Analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) patients 1 day before, 1 day after, and up to 12 months after the initiation of interferon beta-1a (IFN-beta-1a) therapy. Results identify biomarkers for beta-IFN responsiveness.
GDS2772 Analysis of atrial biopsies from patients receiving the anesthetic gas sevoflurane or the intravenous anesthetic propofol during off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Anesthetic gases protect against myocardial ischemia. Results provide insight into the basis of this protective effect.
GDS2770 Analysis of estrogen receptor (ER) alpha positive MCF-7 breast cancer cells following introduction of ERbeta and treatment with estrogen. The majority of breast cancers express both ERalpha and ERbeta. Results provide insight into the comodulatory effects of these two ERs.
GDS2771 Analysis of large airway epithelial cells from cigarette smokers without cancer, with cancer, and with suspect lung cancer. Results provide insight into the feasibility of using gene expression to detect early stage lung cancer in smokers.
GDS2431 Analysis of adult differentiating CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells at various time points up to 11 days of growth in serum-free medium containing erythropoietin, interleukin-3 and stem cell factor. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of erythropoiesis.
GDS2432 Analysis of whole blood from individuals with pituitary adenoma predisposition. Pituitary adenomas are common benign neoplasms characterized by oversecretion of growth hormone, leading to acromegaly. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of pituitary adenomas.
GDS1392 Analysis of bone marrow CD34+ progenitor cells from normal-karyotype, low-blast-count, early, low-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) patients, age-matched controls, and patients with non-MDS anemia. Results provide insight into pathogenesis of MDS and identify putative markers of MDS.
GDS2778 Analysis of cultured peripheral blood mononuclear cells treated with the benzene metabolite 1,2,4-benzenetriol. Benzene is an air pollutant and carcinogen. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of benzene cytotoxicity.
GDS2430 Analysis of monocytes (MCs) treated with M-CSF to induce differentiation into macrophages (MPs), and mature MPs treated with either IFN-gamma and LPS or IL-4 to induce polarization to M1 or M2 cells, respectively. Results provide insight into MC to MP differentiation and polarized activation.  
GDS2779 Analysis of lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from 3 monozygotic twin pairs discordant for bipolar disorder. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of bipolar disorder.
GDS1397 Analysis of Jurkat T cells infected with an HIV-based vector transducing green fluorescent protein. Expression of genes hosting HIV integration events examined. Results provide insight into how expression from the HIV type 1 promoter is affected by the integration site of the provirus.
GDS2777 Analysis of gemcitabine (Gem)-resistant non-small lung cancer Calu3 cells treated with bexarotene (Bex). Acquired drug resistance is a major obstacle in cancer therapy. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms underlying the ability of bexarotene to overcome Gem-resistance in Calu3 cells.
GDS2234 Comparison of vastus lateralis muscles of previously sedentary individuals with improved insulin sensitivity (SI) after 20 weeks of exercise to those with no change in SI. Results provide insight into the mechanisms involved in the improvement in SI induced by regular exercise.
GDS2230 Analysis of intestinal CaCo-2 cell line grown in medium free of iron or supplemented with hemin to mimic iron overload. Intestinal iron absorption is crucial for systemic iron homeostasis. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms regulating iron metabolism.
GDS1390 Analysis of prostate cancer progression following androgen ablation treatment. 10 treated androgen-independent primary prostate tumors compared to 10 untreated androgen-dependent primary  prostate tumors. Results provide insight into progression of prostate cancer to aggressive androgen-independent 
GDS2971 Analysis of prostate cancer LNCaP cells treated with the chemotherapeutic agent docetaxel or the hemiasterlin analog HTI-286. Like docetaxel, HTI-286 disrupts microtubule dynamics. But unlike docetaxel, HT-286 exhibits reduced multidrug resistance.
GDS2970 Analysis of leukemia K562 cells treated with the polyamide-chlorambucil conjugate 1R-Chl. 1R-Chl down-regulates transcription of the human histone H4c gene and inhibits the growth of several cancer cell lines in vitro.
GDS1597 Analysis of 51 coronary artery segments from the explanted hearts of 22 cardiac patients. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis and progression of atherosclerotic disease.
GDS2239 Analysis of HepG2 hepatocytes following induction of hepatitis C virus (HCV) core protein expression. HCV core protein is implicated in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Results provide insight into the molecular processes affected by the HCV core protein.
GDS1340 Expression profiling of vastus lateralis muscles from 6 healthy, elderly, sedentary males after 3 months of exercise at 80% of maximal capacity.  Results provide insight into the molecular changes induced by exercise in sedentary skeletal muscles. 
GDS3347 Analysis of cultured myotubes from obese patients with type 2 diabetes. Cultured human myotubes display the morphological, metabolic and biochemical properties of adult skeletal muscle. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying insulin resistance in skeletal muscle.
GDS2484 Analysis of dermal lymphatic endothelial cells treated with tumor necrosis factor alpha to define inflammation-induced changes. Results provide insight into the mechanisms regulating the transmigration of leukocytes from inflamed skin across the lymphatic vessel endothelium into lymph nodes.
GDS2486 Analysis of small airway epithelial cells of phenotypically normal smokers. The earliest morphologic evidence of changes in the airways associated with chronic cigarette smoking is in the small airways. Results provide insight into how smoking modifies small airway structure and function.
GDS2489 Analysis of large airway epithelial cells of phenotypically normal smokers. Lung cancer tumors exhibit neuroendocrine properties, and chronic smokers have increased numbers of neuroendocrine cells. Results provide insight into the effect of cigarette smoking on neuroendocrine cells.
GDS1344 Analysis of renal tumors from 34 papillary renal cell carcinoma (PRCC) cases. Results identify 2 molecular signatures that correlate with the morphologic classification of PRCC. Molecular class type 1 tumors correlate with excellent survival, while type 2 tumors correlate with poor survival. 
GDS3345 Analysis of postmortem prefrontal cortices from subjects with bipolar disorder, depression, and schizophrenia. Results provide insight into the molecular pathophysiology of these mental disorders.
GDS3342 Analysis of U937 monoctyes exposed to oxidative stress then treated for 4 or 18 hrs with curcumin, a dietary polyphenol. Curcumin restores oxidative stress impaired histone deacetylase-2 activity and corticosteroid efficacy in vitro. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of these effects.
GDS1347 Comparison of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) treated with  dimethylsulphoxide and butylated hydroxyanisole (DMSO/BHA) for 6 or 48 hours to fetal brain (positive control) or adult liver (negative control). Results raise doubts about the DMSO/BHA protocol for generating neural cells from MSCs.
GDS2095 Analysis of breast cancer MCF10A-Myc cells at various time points up to 24 hours following treatment with dexamethasone to activate the glucocorticoid receptor (GR). GR activation is critical in the stress response of virtually all cell types.
GDS2096 Analysis of breast cancer MCF10A-Myc cells at various time points up to 24 hours following treatment with dexamethasone to activate the glucocorticoid receptor (GR). GR activation is critical in the stress response of virtually all cell types.
GDS2204 Analysis of 1, 2, 5 or 10 ug of Stratagene universal human reference RNA as starting material. Results provide insight into the influence of starting RNA quantity on the subsequent gene expression signal measured from a microarray.
GDS2097 Analysis of breast cancer MCF10A-Myc cells at various time points up to 24 hours following treatment with dexamethasone to activate the glucocorticoid receptor (GR). GR activation is critical in the stress response of virtually all cell types.
GDS2205 Comparison of subendocardial left ventricular tissue samples from 7 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) to those from 5 patients with non-failing (NF) hearts. DCM is a common cause of heart failure. Results contribute to the identification of a gene expression signature for DCM.
GDS2206 Comparison of septal myocardial tissue samples from 13 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) to those from 15 patients with non-failing (NF) hearts. DCM is a common cause of heart failure. Results contribute to the identification of a gene expression signature for DCM.
GDS2987 Analysis of three primary cell lines treated with Rho kinase (ROCK) 2 inhibitor SLx-2119 or with atorvastatin. Effects of ROCK inhibitors overlap to some extent with the pleiotropic (nonlipid lowering) effects of statins. Results suggest possible synergistic effects between the two classes of drugs.
GDS2988 Analysis of U937 lymphoma cells at various time points up to 6 hours following treatment with paeoniflorin (PF). PF, isolated from paeony roots, causes apoptosis and is a chemical heat shock protein (HSP) inducer. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms of action of this compound.
GDS2200 Analysis of normal skin, actinic keratotic (AK) lesion, and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) tumor biopsies from 5 patients with non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC). Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of NMSC.
GDS2201 Comparison of serrated and conventional colorectal adenocarcinoma tumor samples. Results differentiate serrated from conventional colorectal carcinomas (CRC) and provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of serrated CRC.
GDS2494 Analysis of the glucocorticoid (GC) resistant T cell lymphoblastic leukemia cell line CEM-c1 following treatment with rapamycin for 3 or 24 hours. Results compared to a GC sensitivity expression signature. Results provide insight into the feasibility of using rapamycin to reverse GC resistance.
GDS1331 Analysis of blood samples of 5 presymptomatic and 12 symptomatic Huntington's disease (HD) patients. Studies suggest that gene expression may be altered in a variety of tissues in HD, including peripheral blood. Results identify potential markers for HD.
GDS2493 Analysis of pretreatment acute lymphoblastic leukemia samples that are either sensitive or resistant to glucocorticoid (GC)-induced apoptosis in vitro. Results used to search a database of expression profiles of pharmacologic treatment of cells for small molecules that reverse the resistance to GCs.
GDS1332 Analysis of blood samples of 5 presymptomatic and 12 symptomatic Huntington's disease (HD) patients. Studies suggest that gene expression may be altered in a variety of tissues in HD, including peripheral blood. Results identify potential markers for HD.  
GDS2491 Analysis of large airway epithelial cells of phenotypically normal smokers. Lung cancer tumors exhibit neuroendocrine properties, and chronic smokers have increased numbers of neuroendocrine cells. Results provide insight into the effect of cigarette smoking on neuroendocrine cells.
GDS1330 Expression profiling of mucosal biopsy samples from sigmoid colons of 10 patients with Crohn disease (CD) and 10 patients with ulcerative colitis (UC). CD and UC are two forms of inflammatory bowel disease. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of CD and UC. 
GDS2495 Analysis of airway epithelia from healthy individuals 7 and 14 days following injury by epithelial denudation. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying airway epithelial repair.  
GDS2499 Analysis of A549 lung cancer cells following treatment with anti-cancer agent sapphyrin PCI-2050 or transcription inhibitor actinomycin D. Hydrophilic sapphyrins localize to tumors, generate oxidative stress, and inhibit gene expression.
GDS2083 Analysis of vastus lateralis muscle after knee immobilization for 48 hours. Limbs immobilized due to injury or illness experience significant muscle atrophy within 1 or 2 weeks. Results provide insight into the mechanisms regulating the rapid protein degradation in immobilized skeletal muscles.
GDS2081 Analysis of keratinocytes at various time points up to 48 hours following treatment with the Jun kinase (JNK) inhibitor SP600125. SP600125 is a reversible ATP-competitive inhibitor specific for the three isoforms of JNK. Results identify JNK-regulated genes in epidermal keratinocytes. 
GDS1333 Analysis of gastrocnemius muscle biopsy specimens from Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) patients before and after 3 months of treatment with 0.1mg/kg/day oxandrolone, a synthetic anabolic steroid. Results provide insight into mechanisms underlying the beneficial effect of oxandrolone in DMD.
GDS3333 Analysis of immortalized gingival keratinocytes (HIGKs) infected with a Porphyromonas gingivalis SerB mutant strain. SerB mutants are deficient in internalization and survival in HIGKs. Results provide insight into the role of SerB in the interaction between P. gingivalis and HIGKs.
GDS2080 Analysis of placentas from patients with early or late onset severe preeclampsia. Preeclampsia is a serious pregnancy-associated disorder characterized by hypertension and proteinuria. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of preeclampsia.
GDS1334 Analysis of gastrocnemius muscle biopsy specimens from Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) patients before and after 3 months of treatment with 0.1mg/kg/day oxandrolone, a synthetic anabolic steroid. Results provide insight into mechanisms underlying the beneficial effect of oxandrolone in DMD.
GDS2215 Analysis of primary fetal astrocytes following exposure to the insecticide chlorpyrifos, an organophosphate, or cyfluthrin, a pyrethroid. Results provide insight into the neurotoxicity of cyfluthrin compared to chlorpyrifos and the mechanisms underlying the neurotoxicity of both insecticides.
GDS2086 Analysis of squamous cells following siRNA knockdown of the transcription factor p63, a homolog of the tumor suppressor p53. p63 encodes multiple isoforms that activate or repress transcription, and is critical for the development and maintenance of squamous epithelia. 
GDS2216 Analysis of monocyte-derived dendritic cells treated with cyanobacterial product (CyP) for 1 or 3 hours, or with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in the presence or absence of CyP for 3 hours. Results provide insight into the extent of the antagonistic activity of CyP on LPS-induced responses.
GDS2087 Analysis of squamous cells following siRNA knockdown of the transcription factor p63, a homolog of the tumor suppressor p53. p63 encodes multiple isoforms that activate or repress transcription, and is critical for the development and maintenance of squamous epithelia. 
GDS2213 Analysis of HepG2 hepatoma cells following treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-dC) to inhibit DNA methylation, or trichostatin A (TSA) to inhibit histone deacetylation, or both. Results identify epigentically regulated genes in hepatoma cells.
GDS2084 Analysis of omental adipose tissues of morbidly obese patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). PCOS is a common hormonal disorder among women of reproductive age, and is characterized by hyperandrogenism and chronic anovulation. PCOS is associated with obesity.
GDS2088 Analysis of squamous cell lines following siRNA knockdown of the transcription factor p63, a homolog of the tumor suppressor p53. p63 encodes multiple isoforms that activate or repress transcription, and is critical for the development and maintenance of squamous epithelia.
GDS2990 Analysis of full-term placentas exposed to maternal cigarette smoke. The placenta produces and metabolizes steroids and xenobiotics. Results provide insight into the effects of maternal cigarette smoking on the placenta at term, with a focus on xenobiotic- and steroid-metabolizing genes.
GDS2089 Analysis of vastus lateralis muscles of morbidly obese patients before and after gastric bypass surgery. Surgical treatment of severe obesity such as gastric bypass provides the most dramatic reductions in body weight. Results provide insight into the pathogenesis of obesity.
GDS2705 Analysis of NSCLC adenocarcinoma cells treated with rosiglitazone, carboplatin, or both. Rosiglitazone is an agonist of the nuclear receptor PPARgamma. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the synergy observed between rosiglitazone and platinum-based drugs in cancer models.
GDS2706 Analysis of Philadelphia chromosome (Ph) positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell lines BV173 and SUP-B15 treated with the anticancer drug imatinib mesylate (STI571). Ph encodes the oncogenic BCR-ABL1 kinase. Results provide insight into molecular basis of the transforming activity of BCR-ABL1.
GDS2490 Analysis of large airway epithelial cells of phenotypically normal smokers. Lung cancer tumors exhibit neuroendocrine properties, and chronic smokers have increased numbers of neuroendocrine cells. Results provide insight into the effect of cigarette smoking on neuroendocrine cells.
GDS2724 Analysis of DAOY medulloblastoma cells following RNAi knockdown of Bmi-1, Mel-18, or both. Bmi-1 and Mel-18 belong to the Polycomb group (PcG) of transcriptional regulators. Results provide insight into the role of Bmi-1 and Mel-18 in the pathogenesis of medulloblastoma.
GDS2723 Analysis of immortalized B cells from 2 children with a primary immunodeficiency syndrome that is characterized by neutropenia, partial albinism, short stature, and B-cell and cytotoxic T-cell deficiencies. Results provide insight into the genetic basis of this syndrome.
GDS3595 Analysis of macrophages at 1, 3, and 6 hours post-infection with H1N1 or H5N1 viruses in vitro. The avian H5N1 virus is highly pathogenic, while the swine H1N1 virus is less so. Alveolar macrophages are targets of H5N1. Results provide insight into the host response to H1N1 and H5N1 infections.
GDS3329 Analysis of mononuclear cells from bone marrow or peripheral blood from a test set of adult patients with cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia (CN-AML). CN-AML patients show heterogeneous treatment outcomes. Results provide insight into the prognostic value of a gene signature for CN-AML.
GDS1362 Analysis of myocardial tissues from nonischemic (NICM) and ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICM) patients. NICM and ICM, major forms of dilated cardiomyopathy leading to congestive heart failure, have similar presentations but differ in pathophysiology, prognosis, and response to therapy.
GDS3324 Analysis of epithelium and stroma cells in normal and invasive breast cancer tissues. Information on the role that stroma tissues have on the growth and progression of cancer is limited.Results provide insights into the molecular basis of cancer invasion and metastasis.
GDS1365 Analysis of CD14+ monocytes primed with 3 U/ml (subactivating dose) IFN-gamma for 48 hours and restimulated with 100 U/ml (saturating dose) IFN-gamma for various time point up to 24 hours. Results provide insight into the influence of IFN-gamma priming on IFN-gamma induced transcriptional responses.
GDS3592 Comparison of normal ovarian surface epithelia (OSE) and ovarian cancer epithelial cells (CEPIs). CEPIs were isolated by laser capture microdissection from serous papillary ovarian adenocarcinomas. Results provide insight into the role of OSE in the development of ovarian adenocarcinoma.
GDS1369 Analysis of Awells B-lymphoblastoid cell line after 6 and 24 hours of starvation-induced autophagy. Results identify the influence of autophagy on the MHC-II ligandome, in promoting MHC-II presentation of antigens from intracellular source proteins, and on the MHC-II antigen-processing machinery.
GDS2737 Analysis of endometrial specimens from women with endometriosis. Endometrial gene expression examined at various phases of the menstrual cycle. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of endometriosis. 
GDS2736 Analysis of malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) tumors and various soft tissue sarcomas (STSs). MFH is characterized by non-recurrent complex chromosomal aberrations, and overlapping histological and immunohistochemical phenotypes. Results provide insight into the similarities between MFH and STSs.
GDS3318 Analysis of platelets from patients with sickle cell disease. Sickle cell disease patients exhibit increased activation of platelets. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of platelet dysfunction in sickle cell disease.
GDS2735 Analysis of sorted peripheral blood lymphocytes (CD8 T cells, CD4 T cells, B cells, NK cells) from patients with melanoma. These subpopulations are involved in antitumor responses and negatively impacted by cancer. Results provide insight into molecular mechanisms of immune dysfunction in cancer.
GDS1353 Analysis of cultured immortalized lens epithelial cells (LEC) 4 and 16 hours after treatment with 1 uM dexamethasone, a glucocorticoid steroid hormone. Long-term glucocorticoid use can induce cataract formation. Results identify glucocorticoid targets and short-term effects of glucocorticoid on LECs
GDS2733 Analysis of Ewing’s sarcoma A673 cells for up to 5 days after treatment with cytosine arabinoside (ARA-C) at EC50 or twice the EC50. ARA-C identified as a modulator of the Ewing’s sarcoma EWS/FLI fusion protein. Results provide insight into the specificity of the response of A673 cells to ARA-C.
GDS3313 Comparison of endometria after short-term treatment with tibolone, estradiol (E2), or E2 + medroxyprogesterone acetate (E2 + MPA) in healthy postmenopausal women undergoing hysterectomy. A synthetic steroid, Tibolone is used as an alternative for estrogen or estrogen/progesterone hormone therapy.
GDS2732 Analysis of epidermal keratinocytes at various time points up to 48 hours following treatment with 2-(3,4,5-trimethoxyphenylamino)-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine (PP). PP induces the terminal differentiation of epidermal keratinocytes. Results provide insight into the mechanism of action of PP.
GDS2470 Analysis of amniotic fluid samples from pregnant women carrying fetuses with neural tube defects (NTDs) diagnosed during ultrasound examination. Results provide insight into the feasibility of using amniotic fluid samples to characterize polygenic disorders, such as NTD, at the molecular level.
GDS3315 Analysis of MCF-7 breast cancer cells treated with estradiol (E2) and cycloheximide, an inhibitor of protein synthesis (PS). Primary E2 targets are regulated by E2 in the absence of de novo PS. Results provide insight into mechanisms underlying primary and secondary E2 target gene regulation.  
GDS3312 Analysis of mononuclear cells from bone marrow or peripheral blood from a training set of 163 adult patients with cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia (CN-AML). Patients with CN-AML show heterogeneous treatment outcomes. Results provide insight into a prognostic gene signature for CN-AML.
GDS2478 Analysis of inflammatory papules and normal skin from six patients with acne. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of acne.
GDS2729 Analysis of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) cells resistant to cyclophosphamide (CP), an alkylating anticancer drug. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of CP resistance in CML.
GDS2728 Comparison of CD133+ and CD133- glioblastoma-derived cancer stem cells (CSC). Both CSC subpopulations were derived from primary glioblastomas. Results provide insight into the role of CD133+ and CD133- CSCs in the pathogenesis of glioblastoma.
GDS1407 Analysis of whole blood following 4 hour treatment with lipolysaccharide (LPS). Leukocytes from individuals with high and low responses to LPS examined. LPS response assessed by measuring cytokine production. Results provide insight into the variability of LPS responses between individuals.
GDS1615 Analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) patients. Results identify a PBMC expression signature that distinguishes between CD and UC, suggesting that diagnosis of these two inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) using PBMCs is possible.
GDS1411 Analysis of HCaRG9, a stably-transfected HEK293 embryonal kidney cell line over-expressing the hypertension-related, calcium-regulated gene (HCaRG). Results identify a role for HCaRG in kidney repair involving increased renal cell migration and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-α) expression.
GDS1413 Analysis of RKO colorectal carcinoma cell line at 6 and 24 hours following exposure to subcytotoxic and cytotoxic amounts of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE). HNE is an abundant product of polyunsaturated fatty acid oxidation and decomposition and reacts extensively with DNA and proteins.  
GDS1412 Comparison of whole blood samples from 42 postmenopausal women on hormone replacement therapy (HRT) to those of 47 postmenopausal women not on HRT. Subjects are part of the Norwegian Women and Cancer Study (NOWAC). 
GDS1414 Analysis of glial cell line Hs683 at various time points up to 48 hours following exposure to 300 nM of candoxin (CDX) snake venom. CDX is a neurotoxin that inhibits post-synaptic neuromuscular and neuronal alpha7nACh-receptors, and delays cell death in glial cells.
GDS1112 Expression profiling of astrocytes taken from the optic nerve head (ONH) of patients with glaucoma. The ONH is the site of damage in glaucomatous optic neuropathy. Studies suggest that damage in glaucoma is mediated by reactive astrocytes.
GDS1815 Analysis of high-grade glioma (HGGs) samples from cases of WHO grade III and IV astrocytomas. Results classify HGGs into molecular subclasses with prognostic value that predict survival and disease progression. The molecular subclasses resemble key stages of neurogenesis. 
GDS1816 Analysis of high-grade glioma (HGGs) samples from cases of WHO grade III and IV astrocytomas. Results classify HGGs into molecular subclasses with prognostic value that predict survival and disease progression. The molecular subclasses resemble key stages of neurogenesis. 
GDS476 Expression profiles of foreskin fibroblasts at 12 time points beginning 30 minutes after infection by human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) and continuing until 48 hours after infection.
GDS1812 Analysis of high-risk human papillomavirus (HRHPV) HPV16-containing cervical keratinocyte W12 cells selected for integrated HPV16. Results show that HRHPV integration and episome loss are key events in cervical neoplastic progression.
GDS1813 Analysis of 50 glial brain tumors of various histogenesis. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying gliomagenesis and define biological pathway maps associated with gliomagenesis as well as distinct glioma subtypes.
GDS470 Expression profiling of normal and cancerous cervix tissue samples at stages 1B, 2A, 2B and 3B. 
GDS1618 Analysis of lymph node (sinuses) and tonsil (no sinuses), highly similar secondary lymphoid organs. Metastatic tumor cells are preferentially arrested in the lymph node sinuses. Results identify signature genes that are prime candidates for mediating adhesion of tumor cells to sinusoidal cells.
GDS1617 Analysis of Ramos B-cell lymphoma cultures following 4 hour treatment with anticancer agent motexafin gadolinium (MGd), zinc acetate (25 or 50 uM), or combinations of MGd and zinc. Results provide insight into the molecular changes that accompany the disruption of intracellular zinc homeostasis.
GDS1427 Analysis of monocytes infected with adenovirus expressing c-Myb or its oncogenic variant v-Myb, a mutated (11 AA substitutions) and truncated (N- and C-termini) version of c-Myb. Results identify dramatic, qualitative changes in the transcriptional acitivity of c-Myb caused by oncogenic mutations. 
GDS1806 Analysis of activated T-cells subjected to modeled microgravity. The study seeks to identify microgravity sensitive genes involved in apoptosis and the immune response. Microgravity is an environment of little net gravitational force that is experienced in spaceflight and by free-falling objects.
GDS1807 Expression profiling of B lymphocyte P493-6 cells subjected to hypoxia. Cells incubated in 0.1% oxygen for 29 hours, the point of highest expression of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1).  Results identify hypoxia responsive genes in P493-6 cells. 
GDS483 Analysis of effect of DACH1 in breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231. DACH1 induced by ponasterone A treatment for 0, 18 or 36 hours.  DACH1 may regulate aberrant TGF beta signals that have role in breast cancer progression.
GDS1846 Analysis of keratinocytes treated with interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) for up to 48 hours. IFN-gamma is a multifunctional, immunomodulatory cytokine with cell type-specific antiviral activities. Results provide insight into molecular processes regulated by IFN-gamma in keratinocytes.
GDS1841 Analysis of cells that constitutively express misfolded surfactant protein C, which induces chronic endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and cytotoxicity. Results provide evidence for an NF-kB-dependent adaptive response to the chronic ER stress imposed by the misfolded protein.
GDS1637 Analysis of transformed cell lines that either exhibit oncogene-induced senescence (OIS) triggered by MEK activation or bypass OIS. Senescent cells exist in premalignant tumors but not in malignant ones. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of OIS.
GDS1630 Analysis of EA.hy926, an immortalized umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) line, and its primary cell counterpart following treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor atorvastatin to inhibit the mevalonate pathway. Results suggest EA.hy926 cells have retained endothelial cell-specific features.
GDS214 Examination of muscle biopsies from Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients and normal subjects of various age groups.  Both mixed groups of patients (5 patient biopsies per group) and individual biopsies analyzed. 
GDS1436 Anlaysis of alveolar macrophages of 5 phenotypically normal smokers who consume ~20 packs cigarettes/year. Smoking is the leading cause of respiratory diseases collectively known as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Provides insight into early events in molecular pathogenesis of COPD.
GDS1439 Expression profiling of prostate cancer tumors that are benign, clinically localized, or metastatic and refractory to hormones. Results compared to those obtained from immunoblotting to identify concordant changes in mRNA and protein levels.
GDS1438 Analysis of kidneys removed by laparoscopic donor nephrectomy (LDN), a minimally invasive procedure that involves several hours of carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum. Renal cortices of kidneys recovered by LDN compared to those removed by open donor nephrectomy. 
GDS1627 Analysis of 4 breast cell lines treated for up to 36 hrs with the chemotherapeutic agents 5-fluorouracil (5FU), doxorubicin (DOX), or etoposide (ETOP), a drug mechanistically similar to DOX. Expression profiles for DOX- and 5FU-treated cells were used to successfully predict the response to ETOP. 
GDS479 Temporal analysis of effect of 3 Gy and 10 Gy ionizing radiation (IR) exposure on lymphoblastoid cells. Various time points up to 24 hours examined.
GDS1836 Analysis of genital fibroblasts from 46,XY females with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS). Response of cells to dihydrotestosterone examined. Most AIS affected individuals have mutated androgen receptors (AR). Results provide insight into the role of AR in genital differentiation.
GDS1839 Analysis of lymph node biopsies from 24 follicular lymphoma patients. Biopsies obtained before any systemic therapy. Results analyzed together with the subsequent response of patients to rituximab, a monoclonal antibody directed against the B cell antigen, CD20. 
GDS1835 Analysis of individual cell lines representing different tissues against a Universal Reference RNA (URR). URR prepared from pooled RNA from the individual cell lines. Results indicate the individual cell lines contribute their own unique set of genes, thereby diversifying gene representation in URR.
GDS494 Effect of 1mM 4-phenylbutyrate (PBA) at 0, 12 and 24 hours in cystic fibrosis bronchial epithelial model cell line IB3-1. PBA modulates heat shock protein and promotes trafficking of deltaF508 cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR).
GDS493 Effect of 1mM 4-phenylbutyrate (PBA) at 0, 12 and 24 hours in cystic fibrosis bronchial epithelial model cell line IB3-1. PBA modulates heat shock protein and promotes trafficking of deltaF508 cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR).
GDS1830 Expression analysis of cell lines derived from primary and recurrent glioblastomas with resistance to O6-alkylating agents, BCNU and TMZ. Chemoresistance to these widely-used drugs is a major obstacle to tumor treatment. Results identify a transcriptomic signature of resistance to alkylating agents.
GDS1645 Analysis of soluble guanylate cyclase-deficient U937 cells exposed to the nitric oxide (NO) donor S-nitrosoglutathione. Cells treated in the presence of dibutyryl-cAMP (Bt2cAMP) to block signaling due to NO-induced decreases in cAMP. Results provide insight into the cGMP-independent effects of NO.
GDS1646 Analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells infected with various titers of HIV-1 and exposed to a single infectious dose of Neisseria gonorrhoeae (Gc). Results provide insight into the role of viral burden in defining the cellular contribution to host immune response to co-infection with Gc.
GDS201 Embryonic lung fibroblasts (HLF) infected with control lentivirus, or lentivirus expressing MRG15 and MRGX small hairpin RNAs from the H1 polIII promoter. The MRG15 shRNA induces an interferon response that is unrelated to silencing of MRG15.  
GDS1449 Analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from HIV-1 seropositive and seronegative individuals. Results used to identify a 10-gene signature used for determining HIV-1 serostatus, and a 6-gene signature to identify seropositive individuals exhibiting changes in CD4+ T cell counts.
GDS1447 Analysis of bronchial epithelial cells after 4 hours of exposure to 50 uM vanadium (V) or zinc (Zn). Excessive V and Zn in the air can arise from the burning of heavy fuel and during welding and smelting operations, respectively. Results identify biomarkers that distinguish V from Zn exposure.
GDS1442 Analysis of primate livers exposed to ciprofibrate at various doses for 4 or 15 days. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-α (PPARα) agonists such as ciprofibrate cause hepatocarcinogenesis in rodents but not in primates. Results identify species differences in response to PPARα agonist.
GDS1440 Analysis of a poorly tumorigenic melanoma cell line and its 3 highly aggressive derivative lines after treatment with 2'-deoxy-5-azacytidine (DAC), a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor. Results suggest multiple markers for melanoma progression that are regulated by DNA methylation.
GDS2529 Analysis of the basal plate of the placenta from midgestation to term. The basal plate is the region where maternal and fetal cells coexist. Its proper formation is required for pregnancy. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the unique cell-cell interactions in the basal plate.
GDS1650 Analysis of pulmonary adenocarcinomas (AC). Carcinogen exposure is responsible for the majority of ACs. Results compared with those obtained from a urethane-induced lung tumor model in the mouse (GDS1649), and provide insight into the conserved pathways underlying the development of AC. 
GDS2530 Analysis of 4 retinoblastomas with loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at chromosome 16q. In addition to RB1 gene mutations, retinoblastomas frequently show gains of 1q and 6p and losses of 16q. Results identify candidate tumor suppressors on 16q in retinoblastoma.
GDS2676 Analysis of paired CD38(+) and CD38(-) chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells from six patients. CD38 expression is an important prognostic marker in CLL with high levels of CD38 antigen associated with shorter overall survival. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of this association.
GDS2678 Comparison of various human and chimpanzee brain regions. Results provide insight into the genetic basis of human specializations in brain organization and cognition. 
GDS2536 Analysis of human umbilical vein endothelial cells treated with nickel chloride. Nickel compounds, important carcinogens and inducers of contact allergy reactions, are activators of endothelial cells. Results provide insight into the signaling pathways mediating the cellular responses to nickel.
GDS2535 Analysis of lung fibroblasts for up to 24 hours following exposure to vanadium pentoxide (V2O5). Exposure to V2O5 is a cause of occupational bronchitis. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms that contribute to airway remodeling associated with V2O5-induced bronchitis.
GDS2534 Analysis of ME180 cervical carcinoma cells depleted for p63 isoforms by expression of a small hairpin RNA targeting the p63 oligomerization domain. p63 is a p53 homolog essential for stratified epithelial development. Results provide insight into the function of p63 in transcriptional regulation. 
GDS1665 Analysis of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) tumors from 9 patients. PTC accounts for about 80% of all thyroid cancers. These results, together with those obtained from custom miRNA chips, indicate the involvement of several miRNAs and the receptor tyrosine kinase KIT in PTC pathogenesis.
GDS1664 Analysis of MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells depleted for parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) using siRNA. PTHrP affects the proliferative and invasive activities of breast cancer cells and regulates their sensitivity to apoptotic stimuli. Results identify PTHrP-regulated tumor-relevant genes.
GDS2518 Analysis of uninvolved and lesional skin of 13 patients with plaque-type psoriasis. Psoriasis vulgaris is characterized by hyperproliferation and incomplete terminal differentiation of epidermal keratinocytes. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of psoriasis.
GDS2519 Analysis of blood of 50 patients predominantly with early-stage Parkinson’s disease (PD). Results provide insight into the molecular processes perturbed in the cellular blood of patients with early-stage PD.
GDS1667 Analysis of 8 head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) tumors positive for human papilloma virus (HPV). 28 HNSCC HPV negative tumors examined. Between 15% and 35% of HNSCCs harbor HPV DNA. Results provide insight into the effect of HPV infection in HNSCC.
GDS2520 Analysis of paired normal tissues and tumor samples from patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC).  Results used to assess the effectiveness of using a combinatorial approach to analyze microarray data in identifying differentially expressed genes.
GDS2528 Analysis of the basal plate of the placenta from midgestation to term. The basal plate is the region where maternal and fetal cells coexist. Its proper formation is required for pregnancy. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the unique cell-cell interactions in the basal plate.
GDS2526 Analysis of breast and cervix carcinoma cell lines depleted for c-MYC by siRNA knockdown. Abnormal activation of c-MYC contributes to breast and cervix carcinogenesis. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the developmental and oncogenic roles of MYC proteins. 
GDS1679 Expression profiling of vastus lateralis muscles 3 and 48 hours after a 75-minute bout of high-intensity cycling. Results identify transcriptional pathways activated in skeletal muscles recovering from endurance exercise. 
GDS1676 Analysis of an adult T cell leukemia cell line (TaY) following infection with human herpesvirus type 6B strain OK. Cells examined up to 5 days post-infection. Chronically-infected TaY cells were also examined. Results identify candidate genes that regulate the immune response during viral infection.
GDS1673 Analysis of non-diseased lungs from 23 multi-organ donors.  Upper and lower lobe peripheral sections of the lung were examined. Donors varied in age, sex, smoking history, and ethnicity. Results provide a reference for microarray studies of pulmonary disease.
GDS1672 Comparison of outer root sheath (ORS) cells of the hair follicle bulge with other defined ORS cell subpopulations within the follicle. Results provide insight into the biological distinctiveness of hair follicle bulge cells, suggesting the bulge is a repository for keratinocyte stem cells (KSCs). 
GDS2697 Analysis of sperm cells from males with consistent and severe teratozoospermia, a condition in which less than 4 percent of sperm cells are morphologically normal. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of a range of teratozoospermic presentations.
GDS2513 Analysis of thrombopoietin-cultured CD34+ cells at various time points up to 5 days following treatment with nicotinamide. Thrombopoietin induces CD34+ cells to differentiate into megakaryocytes. Results provide insight into the effect of nicotinamide on megakaryocyte differentiation.
GDS2696 Analysis of sperm cells from males with consistent and severe teratozoospermia, a condition in which less than 4 percent of sperm cells are morphologically normal. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of a range of teratozoospermic presentations.
GDS2516 Analysis of endothelial cells treated with interferon (IFN) alpha, beta, or gamma for 5 hours.  The effect of IFNs on fibroblasts was also examined.  Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the antiangiogenic activity exhibited by IFNs. 
GDS2695 Analysis of sperm cells from males with consistent and severe teratozoospermia, a condition in which less than 4 percent of sperm cells are morphologically normal. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of a range of teratozoospermic presentations.
GDS1684 Expression profiling of endomyocardial tissues from 3 subjects before, during, and after a rejection episode.  Cardiac allograft rejection is a significant clinical problem in the early phase after heart transplantation and requires frequent surveillance with endomyocardial biopsy.
GDS1681 Analysis of dendritic cells (DCs) for up to 24 hours after infection with measles virus (MV). MV induces immunosuppression followed by lasting immunity. DCs appear to play a role in this effect. Results provide insight into MV-DC interactions and suggest mechanisms for MV-modulated immune response.
GDS1405 Analysis of epithelial cells isolated from 13 fetal lungs (13-20 wks old) and cultured in dexamethasone/cyclic AMP/isobutylmethylxanthine (DCI) for 72 hrs to promote type II cell differentiation. Mature alveolar type II cells that produce surfactant are critical for adaptation to extrauterine life. 
GDS2501 Analysis of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells that express or do not express zeta-associated protein (ZAP-70) and CD38. The prognosis of patients with ZAP-70-CD38- B-CLL cells is good, those with ZAP-70+CD38+ B-CLL cells is poor.
GDS1401 Analysis of CD34+ hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSC) expanded for 7 days in an artificial matrix of fibrillar collagen I, the major matrix component of bone. Results provide insight into the limitations of ex vivo expansion to increase the number of transplantable HSCs from cord blood.
GDS2682 Analysis of conjunctival (Cnj) and corneal (Co) epithelia, the main cellular components of the ocular surface. Cnj and Co epithelia are embryologically related but phenotypically and functionally disparate. Results provide insight into the molecular basis of these differences.
GDS3626 Analysis of HEK293 kidney cells depleted for the macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF). MIF depletion in HEK293 cells result in G(0)/G(1) cell cycle arrest. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying this cell cycle arrest.
GDS3628 Analysis of whole blood from rheumatoid arthritis patients at baseline of infliximab therapy. Infliximab is an anti-TNF alpha antibody. Clinical response to infliximab determined at week 14 of therapy. Results identify a gene expression signature for predicting the response to infliximab.
GDS3627 Comparison of two non-small cell lung cancer histological subtypes: adenocarcinomas (AC) and squamous cell carcinomas (SCC). Results provide insight into the molecular differences between AC and SCC.
GDS270 Examination of muscle biopsies from Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients and normal subjects of various age groups. Both mixed groups of patients (5 patient biopsies per group) and individual biopsies analyzed.
GDS274 Generation of a molecular signature for metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and identification of genes relevant to metastasis and patient survival. Osteopontin identified as molecular marker for defining metastatic potential.
GDS3615 Analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells of children with acute asthma during exacerbation and at subsequent convalescence. Severe asthma exacerbations in children are associated with viral infection and occur among atopics. Results provide insight into the significance of these comorbidities.
GDS3610 Analysis of biopsies from patients with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive undifferentiated nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). NPC is a common cancer in China and Southeast Asia. Results provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of NPC.
GDS670 Expression profiling of lung tissue from normal individuals, and patients with either 'usual' emphysema or alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency-related emphysema. Global reduction in gene expression observed in emphysemic lungs.  
GDS807 Expression profiling of microdissected estrogen positive primary breast cancer tumors from 60 patients.  Patients later treated with tamoxifen for 5 years, and tumors grouped according to whether cancer recurred.  Results identify markers of disease-free survival that include HOXB13 and IL17BR. 
GDS806 Expression profiling of estrogen positive primary breast cancer tumors from 60 patients.  Patients subsequently treated with tamoxifen for 5 years, and tumors classified according to whether cancer recurred.  Results identify gene markers of disease-free survival that include HOXB13 and IL17BR.
GDS268 Identification of proteins involved in fatty acid oxidation in skeletal muscle. Fat oxidation may be reduced in morbidly obese individuals. Provides understanding of how obesity contributes to cardiovascular disease via insulin resistance.
GDS3609 Analysis of MCF10A breast epithelial cells depleted for Syk. Progressive loss of Syk mRNA occurs during breast tumor development. Results provide insight into Syk’s tumor suppressor function and role in normal breast development.
GDS262 Examination of muscle biopsies from Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients and normal subjects of various age groups. Both mixed groups of patients (5 patient biopsies per group) and individual biopsies analyzed.
GDS265 Examination of muscle biopsies from Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients and normal subjects of various age groups. Both mixed groups of patients (5 patient biopsies per group) and individual biopsies analyzed.
GDS264 Examination of muscle biopsies from Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients and normal subjects of various age groups. Both mixed groups of patients (5 patient biopsies per group) and individual biopsies analyzed.
GDS3600 Analysis of cultured umbilical vein endothelial cells treated with 1 nmol/L estradiol for 24 hours. The incidence of coronary heart disease in women increases after menopause. Results provide insight into the response of the cardiovascular system to estrogens at the molecular level.
GDS3602 Analysis of cultured abdominal subcutaneous mature adipocytes from 5 male and 5 female non-diabetic obese Pima Indians. The prevalence of obesity in Pima Indians is among the highest of any population. Results provide insight into the role of adipocytes in obesity and obesity-related inflammation.
GDS3601 Analysis of cultured abdominal subcutaneous mature adipocytes from 4 male and 5 female non-diabetic obese Pima Indians. The prevalence of obesity in Pima Indians is among the highest of any population. Results provide insight into the role of adipocytes in obesity and obesity-related inflammation.
GDS3604 Analysis of endometrial epithelial cells from stage I or II endometrioid carcinomas after treatment with oestrogen or tamoxifen (TMX). Results provide insight into the molecular basis of the association of TMX treatment of breast cancer with an increased incidence of endometrial cancer.
GDS3603 Expression profiling of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from patients with advanced renal cancer following treatment with the rapamycin analog CCI-779. Gene expression examined 8 and 16 weeks after treatment. Results identify potential gene markers of CCI-779 exposure.
GDS3606 Analysis of primary cultured myeloid leukemia cells treated with recombinant human thrombopoietin or the thrombopoietin receptor agonist SB-559457 (SB). SB is toxic to leukemia cells. Results provide insight into the mechanism of action of SB.
GDS686 Comparison of HEK-293-derived monoclonal cell lines with high or low levels of store-operated Ca2+ entry (SOCE). Levels of SOCE confirmed by monitoring thapsigargin-stimulated Ba2+ entry.
GDS687 Analysis of dermal papilla (DP) induced epithelial stem cell differentiation. Keratinocyte stem cells from bulge area of telogen hair follicle co-cultured with DP over a 5 day period.
GDS400 Temporal analysis of differences in WS1 human skin fibroblast gene expression response to low (10 J/m2; induces transient cellular replicative arrest) or high (50 J/m2; induces apoptosis) doses of short wavelength UV radiation (UVC; 254 nm).
GDS412 Identification of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) associated genes. Post mortem spinal cord grey matter from sporadic and familial ALS patients compared with controls. Attempt to identify mechanisms by which ALS destroys motor neurons.
GDS287 Comparison of gene expression in vastus lateralis skeletal muscle biopsies in healthy young (21-27 year old) and older (67-75 year old) men
GDS288 Comparison of gene expression in vastus lateralis skeletal muscle biopsies in healthy young (21-27 year old) and older (67-75 year old) men.
GDS1858 Analysis of HeLa cells at 12 or 24 hours after transfection with wild type or mutant miR-1 or miR-124. miR-1 is preferentially expressed in heart and skeletal muscle, while miR-124 is preferentially expressed in brain. Results suggest that metazoan miRNAs can reduce the levels of target transcripts.
GDS841 Part of a study profiling 54 bone marrow and 65 peripheral blood samples from 116 adults with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Results identify distinct gene expression signatures that correlate with clinical outcomes. Signatures used to construct a clinical outcome predictor using 133 genes.
GDS838 Comparison of purified bone marrow CD34+ cells from imatinib-treated chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) patients and healthy donors.
GDS833 Monitoring of mRNA splice variants for more than 10,000 multi-exon genes using arrays with oligonucleotide probes positioned at exon-exon junctions. mRNA from 52 tissues and cell lines examined. Results provide tissue distribution of splice variants and identify novel splice variants.
GDS232 Identification of genes causing medulloblastoma tumors to metastasize. Analyzed 23 primary medulloblastomas clinically designated as either metastatic or non-metastatic.
GDS831 Monitoring of mRNA splice variants for more than 10,000 multi-exon genes using arrays with oligonucleotide probes positioned at exon-exon junctions. mRNA from 52 tissues and cell lines examined. Results provide tissue distribution of splice variants and identify novel splice variants.
GDS832 Monitoring of mRNA splice variants for more than 10,000 multi-exon genes using arrays with oligonucleotide probes positioned at exon-exon junctions. mRNA from 52 tissues and cell lines examined. Results provide tissue distribution of splice variants and identify novel splice variants.
GDS422 Analysis of gene expression in a variety of normal tissues. Samples typically composed of a pool of 10-25 individuals. Included as part of the GeneNote project.
GDS423 Analysis of gene expression in a variety of normal tissues. Samples typically composed of a pool of 10-25 individuals. Included as part of the GeneNote project.
GDS420 Investigation of molecular basis for immunodeficiency in severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) patient. Thymocytes isolated from SCID patient compared with control subject.
GDS421 Investigation of molecular basis for immunodeficiency in severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) patient. Thymocytes isolated from SCID patient compared with control subject.
GDS611 Search for modifying factors and pathogenic pathways involved in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Quadricep skeletal muscle biopsies from DMD patients and unaffected control patients examined.
GDS612 Search for modifying factors and pathogenic pathways involved in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Quadricep skeletal muscle biopsies from DMD patients and unaffected control patients examined.
GDS1847 Analysis of intestinal epithelial Caco-2 cells following treatment with 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 for 24 hours. 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 stimulated calcium absorption in the intestine. Results provide insight into the additional effects of vitamin D on intestinal epithelial cells.
GDS425 Analysis of gene expression in a variety of normal tissues. Samples typically composed of a pool of 10-25 individuals. Included as part of the GeneNote project.
GDS424 Analysis of gene expression in a variety of normal tissues. Samples typically composed of a pool of 10-25 individuals. Included as part of the GeneNote project.
GDS426 Analysis of gene expression in a variety of normal tissues. Samples typically composed of a pool of 10-25 individuals. Included as part of the GeneNote project.
GDS852 Examination of alveolar epithelial A549 cells in models of pulmonary parenchymal cell activation: exposure to tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), lipopolysaccharide (LPS), or cyclic stretch. Cells examined 1 and 4 hours after exposure to each acute lung injury-causing stimulus.
GDS215 Examination of skeletal muscle from juvenile dermatomyositis (JDM) patients, a common pediatric inflammatory myopathy. Muscle biopsies processed singly or in mixed groups of two. Patients genotyped for TNFalpha which is associated with prolonged disease.
GDS846 Analysis of the response of basal epithelium derived breast cancer line HME-CC to either doxorubicin or 5-fluorouracil. Cells examined 12, 24, and 36 hours following treatment. Results provide insight into the response of breast cancers derived from different cell types to chemotherapeutics.
GDS222 Part of a comparison of spotted long oligonucleotide arrays with in situ synthesized 25-mer arrays. Examination of amplified and unamplified K562 erythroleukemia RNA and Stratagene Universal Human Reference RNA.
GDS847 Analysis of the response of luminal epithelium derived breast cancer line MCF-7 to either doxorubicin or 5-fluorouracil. Cells examined 12, 24, and 36 hours following treatment. Results provide insight into the response of breast cancers derived from different cell types to chemotherapeutics.
GDS223 Part of a comparison of spotted long oligonucleotide arrays with in situ synthesized 25-mer arrays. Examination of amplified and unamplified K562 erythroleukemia RNA and Stratagene Universal Human Reference RNA.
GDS848 Analysis of the response of luminal epithelium derived breast cancer line ZR-75-1 to either doxorubicin or 5-fluorouracil. Cells examined 12, 24, and 36 hours following treatment. Results provide insight into the response of breast cancers derived from different cell types to chemotherapeutics.
GDS843 Part of a study profiling 54 bone marrow and 65 peripheral blood samples from 116 adults with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Results identify distinct gene expression signatures that correlate with clinical outcomes. Signatures used to construct a clinical outcome predictor using 133 genes.
GDS845 Analysis of the response of the basal epithelium derived breast cancer line ME16C to either doxorubicin or 5-fluorouracil.  Cells examined 12, 24, and 36 hours following treatment.  Results provide insight into the response of breast cancers derived from different cell types to chemotherapeutics.
GDS1850 Expression profiling of core pulpal tissue from carious teeth. RNA pooled from 11 carious teeth. Results provide insight into the molecular events that occur during the progression of dental caries.
GDS1852 Analysis of HEK293 cells following siRNA knockdown of p53, RelA, or ATM, and subsequent treatment with neocarzinostatin, a radiomimetic drug that induces DNA double-strand breaks. Results indicate RNAi combined with expression profiling is a powerful method for dissecting transcriptional networks.
GDS622 Comparison of high endothelial venules endothelial cells (HEVEC) freshly isolated from tonsils with dedifferentiated HEVEC cultured ex vivo for 48 hours identifies gene expression controlled by tissue microenvironment.
GDS623 Comparison of high endothelial venules endothelial cells (HEVEC) freshly isolated from tonsils with dedifferentiated HEVEC cultured ex vivo for 48 hours identifies gene expression controlled by tissue microenvironment.
GDS1854 Analysis of cerebellums of postnatal day 7 (P7) and adult animals using an array focusing on glycoconjugates. P7 was chosen for comparison as many differentiation events are peaking at this time. Glycoconjugates are widely distributed throughout the CNS and play an essential role in its development.
GDS624 Comparison of high endothelial venules endothelial cells (HEVEC) freshly isolated from tonsils with dedifferentiated HEVEC cultured ex vivo for 48 hours identifies gene expression controlled by tissue microenvironment.
GDS625 Examination of gastric mucosa inflammatory response to Helicobacter pylori infection. Gastric biopsies from healthy and H. pylori-infected patients compared. Infection can lead to cellular hyperproliferation and malignant transformation.
GDS3191 Analysis of resting natural killer (NK) cells and NK cells activated with interleukin-2 (IL-2) for up to 24 hours.  The effector function of NK cells is enhanced by cytokines such as IL-2. Results provide insight into the molecular events in NK cell activation.
GDS3193 Analysis of immature monocyte-derived dendritic cells following activation with anti-CD40 antibodies for 8 hours in the presence of VAF347. VAF347 is a low molecular weight compound that inhibits allergic lung inflammation in vivo. Results provide insight into the mechanism of action of VAF347.
GDS3196 Analysis of leukemia U937 cells exposed to non-thermal low intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) for 6 hours to induce apoptosis. Results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the apoptotic response to nonthermal LIPUS.
GDS810 Expression profiling of brain hippocampi from 22 postmortem subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD) at various stages of severity.  7, 8, and 7 subjects diagnosed with incipient, moderate, and severe AD respectively.  Results provide insight into mechanisms underlying the early pathogenesis of AD.
GDS258 Examination of skeletal muscle from juvenile dermatomyositis (JDM) patients, a common pediatric inflammatory myopathy. Muscle biopsies processed singly or in mixed groups of two. Patients genotyped for TNFalpha which is associated with prolonged disease.
GDS817 Expression profiling of breast cancer cell lines HCC 1954 and MDA-MB-436 in reference to mammary epithelial cells.  Results used to validate a method of comparing data generated from Affymetrix arrays to that from cDNA arrays.  The method uses DNA sequence to match probes between platforms.  
GDS1887 Analysis of rectal cancer cells from patients prior to preoperative radiotherapy. Response to radiotherapy determined by histopathologic examination of resected specimens. Results identify gene markers for the characterization and prediction of the response to radiotherapy in rectal cancer.
GDS1886 Analysis of acute monocytic leukemia THP-1 cells exposed to moderate hypothermia (MH) at 32 degrees C for 24 hours. THP-1 cell line is an in vitro system for analyzing the effects of hypothermia. MH has therapeutic applications. Results show substantial changes in gene expression in response to MH.
GDS449 Analysis of effect of Tat transactivation during cell cycle. HeLa CD4+ cells transfected with epitope-tagged Tat plasmid or parental vector pCEP4. Cells synchronized with cell cycle blocker hydroxyurea or nocodazole and sampled at 0, 3, 6 and 9 hours.
GDS830 Monitoring of mRNA splice variants for more than 10,000 multi-exon genes using arrays with oligonucleotide probes positioned at exon-exon junctions. mRNA from 52 tissues and cell lines examined. Results provide tissue distribution of splice variants and identify novel splice variants.
GDS820 Expression profiling of breast cancer cell lines HCC 1954 and MDA-MB-436 in reference to mammary epithelial cells. Results used to validate a method of comparing data generated from Affymetrix arrays to that from cDNA arrays. The method uses DNA sequence to match probes between platforms.
GDS823 Expression profiling of breast cancer cell lines HCC 1954 and MDA-MB-436 in reference to mammary epithelial cells. Results used to validate a method of comparing data generated from Affymetrix arrays to that from cDNA arrays. The method uses DNA sequence to match probes between platforms.
GDS825 Expression profiling of breast cancer cell lines HCC 1954 and MDA-MB-436 in reference to mammary epithelial cells.  Results used to validate a method of comparing data generated from cDNA arrays to that from Affymetrix arrays.  The method uses DNA sequence to match probes between platforms.
GDS826 Expression profiling of K562 erythroleukemia cells induced to differentiate into erythroid-like cells by hemin.  K562 cells examined at various time points up to 72 hours following treatment with 50 uM hemin.  Results provide insight into mechanisms underlying hemoglobinization.  
GDS829 Monitoring of mRNA splice variants for more than 10,000 multi-exon genes using arrays with oligonucleotide probes positioned at exon-exon junctions.  mRNA from 52 tissues and cell lines examined.  Results provide tissue distribution of splice variants and identify novel splice variants.  
GDS1873 Analysis of estrogen receptor positive, aromatase transfected MCF-7 cells after treatment with an antiestrogen (AE) or an aromatase inhibitor (AI). AEs and AIs are used to treat estrogen-dependent breast cancer. Cells also treated with androgen which is converted to estrogen by aromatase. 
GDS649 Temporal analysis of human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) inflammatory response to interleukin-1 (IL-1) stimulation for 0, 0.5, 1, 2.5, and 6 hours. Immediate-early to early gene expression program characterized.
GDS1875 Analysis of cell lines expressing wild-type or mutant HIV-1 Vpr protein at various timepoints following doxycycline induction. Vpr advances HIV pathogenesis by inhibiting the cell cycle at G2/M. Results identify changes in cellular gene expression associated with Vpr-mediated cell cycle arrest.
