If so, an easy way to do this SNP annotation for small sets of SNPs
is: first, run the executable WGAViewer/WGAViewer.jar in the Dropbox I
just shared with you. Click on Tools/Annotate A List of SNPs. Use an
input text file that contains the list of SNPs you want to analyze
(one SNP ID per line), the file renamed so that its extension is *.wr.
Set the gene and exon limits as desired (if different from default
values), and then annotate. Save the output spreadsheet - this can now
be used as input to the pipeline program previously described. Notice
that the spreadsheet lists each SNP, and in another column, the gene
that the SNP's closest to, which is the gene its mapped to. This
property of the output spreadsheet will be used in the previously
described pipeline program....if for any reason, you have greater than
a million SNPs (which take an enormous amount of time with standard
computing resources) I'll speed up my integration of WGAViewer's SNP
annotation into the pipeline so that you can easily run the entire
package on Safar/another large resource server. Please let me know if
you have any comments questions.

If you are interested in the onto mapping of genes to pathway, see the
pathway data-sets mentioned in the pipeline description (e.g.
kegg-v3.0.gmt).

Enrichment of specific genes can be done easily using the GUI of WEKA.
I'm sure you have the WEKA java archive (weka.jar or weka-src.jar),
but I've included it in the Dropbox in case for any reason you don't.
Executing the Java program, select Explorer, open your .arff training
data, select the appropriate genes or SNP (feature) you want to enrich
using the checkboxes in the box below, and develop an appropriate
classifier using the selected learning method. Enrich the gene, by
observing the level of association with the training data's tested
phenotype - an observation measured via the model's AUROC.

For the predictive pathway-based analysis, use the directions I sent
before. I've put the relevant GitHub directory into the DropBox.