Note that the pipeline for handling GSEs requires much more manual twiddling than the original GDS pipeline.

To begin processing a GSE, open GSEtest.r and enter the desired GSE id at the top.
Then run GSEtest.r, which will create a _pheno.csv and a _geno.csv file in your current directory.
Note that both GSEtest.r and GSEpipeline.r will create a /DAT directory under your current directory where backup files
will be created and data files can be placed if the ncbi ftp server is offline. If the ncbi ftp server is offline,
use Aspera connect to download the correct _series_matrix.txt.gz files and place them in the /DAT directory.

The created _pheno.csv file contains a description of each of the GSM samples - locate a column that specifies whether
the sample is a control or non-control. As long as the script can later automatically distinguish samples by searching for the words
"control", "normal", etc. in this column, it is acceptable.

The created _geno.csv file contains a description of each of the probes - locate a column that specifies a gene symbol
or probe id for each probe.

Once the desired GSE ids and their corresponding phenotype and genotype columns are chosen, open GSEpipeline.r and enter
the GSE ids as a list of strings at the top into "vIDs".
Below the GSE ids, enter a mapping between each GSE id and its columns into "pcTags" and "gcTags"
Follow the format that is already given. Case matters.

The pipeline is currently set up to log2 transform the gene expression values. If this is not desired or if the GSE data
has already been log2 transformed, enter the IDs that should be ignored into "alreadyLog2"

Other options in the GSEpipeline.r script that can be controlled are:
percentTopGenes: controls the percent of the top differentially expressed genes to include
useTargetGenes: if this is TRUE, then an intersection will be taken between the common genes and "targetGenes"
expName: specifies titles of the output files
displayPValues: controls whether p-values should be outputted
