After the check for top hits, the next important question might be: there are so many biologically feasible candidate genes for my phenotype (and perhaps so many candidate gene studies already published) - what are the association results for these candidate genes in my WGA set? 

To manually answer this question is time-consuming and error-prone.  The first problem is, are the physical coordinates listed in the MAP file used for the WGA project up to date?  What version of genome build are they based on? Can they be directly used to align with the gene coordinates in the currently available public databases?  And, further, what version of genome build are the public databases based on? Another issue is how to consider all of the alternative transcripts.

WGAViewer offers an accurate and efficient way to solve these problems by always applying the latest available genome build coordinates to all data that will be used to align with each other.  More specifically, all the annotated coordinates listed as annotation results by this software are always based on the latest Ensembl Core, Variation, and GO databases.  Every coordinate from other sources, for example, the coordinates input from the MAP file, or coordinates from HapMap database (based on NCBI b36, dbSNP b136 as in Aug, 2007) will always be compared with core databases and then aligned. This enables an accurate annotation and solves the problem of discrepancies of genome builds from different sources, especially when trying to align the WGA result set with gene context. Furthermore, this process takes advantage of the efficient monthly updating system of Ensembl.

For alternative transcripts, WGAViewer reports the longest form, alongside all the available short forms based on the Ensembl core database, plus the up- and down-stream span specified by the user when trying to locate a gene and annotate the related genomic region.

For example, HLA-B variants have been related to HIV-related phenotypes in a number of previous publications.  To find HLA-B in the WGA dataset, click on menu "Tools->Find a gene".  This will bring up dialogs for parameters.  The annotation span for HLA-B specifies how far you want to span the region to be shown, in addition to the longest transcript of HLA-B (if it has alternative splice forms).   One also has the option to exclude the annotation for selection score and LD matrix, which will be speed up the process.   

For detailed information see Documentation. 
